An appearance is a bunch of attributes related to the service person, like their shoes, clothes, tie, jewellery, hairstyle, make-up, watch, cosmetics, perfume, etc.
Ajanta, located in the Aurangabad District of Maharashtra has twenty-nine caitya and vihara caves decorated with sculptures and paintings from the first century B.C.E. to the fifth century C.E.
Body colour gets merged with the outer line, creating the effect of volume.
Ashoka started making extensive use of stone for sculptures and great monuments, whereas the previous tradition consisted of working with wood and clay.
Potatoes mixed in masalas, coated in besan batter and deep fried to perfection form this delicious and famous dish of Maharashtra.
Chettinad cuisine is the cuisine of a community called the Nattukotai Chettiars, or Nagarathars, as they call themselves, from the Chettinad region of Tamil Nadu state.
Cinnamon is native to India and, as such, its uses range from that of a flavoring agent to a medicinal agent.
Make this into powder with a dry grinder or in a stone pestle.
Each city in Punjab has varied preferences, like people in Amritsar are particularly fond of Amritsari kulche, stuffed paranthas and milk products.
Send Rama with the sage, and send Lakshmana too.
But Mangal Pandey's brave deed was done through devotion to a high and noble principle.
Once the onions are translucent, add the marinated mutton with turmeric powder and saute for some time until all the spices are absorbed in the mutton for about 5-6 minutes.
Hitopadesa is a book of worldly wisdom presented through the characters of birds, animals, and humans.
The purpose of the book appears to encourage proficiency in Sanskrit expression and the knowledge of wise behaviour.
Professor Asitkumar Bandyopadhyay played a pioneering role in compiling the complete history of his hometown Howrah titled as Howrah Saharer Itibrrito (First and Second Volume) in 1994 & 1995.
The front of the caitya hall is dominated by the motif of a semi-circular caitya arch with an open front that has a wooden facade and, in some cases, there is no dominating caitya arch window.
Generations of 'maharaj' and 'khansamas' (as expert chefs have traditionally been called in India) have perfected the recipes over centuries and these recipes have passed through oral tradition over thousands of years.
The preparation is traditionally done by a vasta waza, or head chef, with the assistance of a court of wazas, or chefs.
Pav Bhaji: It is a fast food dish from Maharashtra, consisting of a thick vegetable curry (bhaji) usually prepared in butter and served with a soft bread roll (pav).
The Kashmiri compositions of Lal Ded and Habba Khatoon are known for their mystical flavour and intense agony of expression, Mirabai's compositions in Rajasthani is known for unique devotional quality, Andal's mysticism in Tamil and Akka Mahadevi's vachanas in Kannnada are testimonies to the great contribution of women to the literature of the time.
The Bagh Caves, consisting of Buddhist mural paintings, are located 97 km from the Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh.
The usual meaning of the word mula in Sanskrit literature is the root of a plant or tree, but figuratively, the foot or lowest part or bottom of anything.
Indus Valley Civilisation is known for its technological knowledge in a variety of fields.
All the Kauravas die; only the five Pandava brothers and Krishna survive.
The battle rages for eighteen days and ends with the defeat of the Kauravas.
The central story of the Mahabharata is a conflict over succession to the throne of Hastinapura, a kingdom just north of modern Delhi that was the ancestral realm of a tribe most commonly known as the Bharatas.
The number of vegetarians exceeds the number of non-vegetarians in Karnataka; therefore, their cuisine mainly consists of vegetarian dishes.
He is answered by Sanjaya, who relates what is happening on the battlefield.
The two epics found in Tamil are Cilapathikaram and Manimekalai.
The use of chilli powder in this region is done cautiously.
The word Yoga is derived from the Sanskrit root Yuj, meaning to join or to yoke or to unite.
Today's Odissi has evolved from the endless sculptures in various motifs carved on the temple walls of Orissa.
Vasishtha now turned to the King and spoke gently: "It ill becomes you, King, to refuse having promised once".
Only when he realizes the extent of Arjuna's despondency does Krishna change his attitude and start teaching the mysteries of dharmic action in this world.
As you add the rice flour into the container, in between, you may also add small quantities of grated coconut.
You may begin by adding a spoonful of grated coconut into the cylindrical container, followed by the well-mixed rice flour.
Maharaja Ranjit Singh's endowment saw the construction of a beautiful and breathtaking Gurudwara featuring an imposing golden dome with intricate carving at Nanded around 1835 A.D.
Samaveda is the compilation of these selected Ruchas set to Svaras keeping their proposed Chanda or rhythmic meters.
From Valmiki's description of the capital of Kosala, it is clear that ancient Ayodhya was not inferior to our modern cities.
Having once said, 'I will do', you have no option but to do it.
In recent days, there have been divergent views on the exchange rate of the rupee and the adequacy of our forex reserves.
Banks shall report a credit card account as past due to credit information companies (CICs) or levy penal charges, viz. late payment charges, etc., if any, only when a credit card account remains past due for more than three days.
Countries may encourage inward direct investment to improve their finances.
However, as an incentive for quick implementation of the package, if the approved package is implemented by the bank within 90 days from the date of receipt of the application by the bank, the asset classification status may be restored to the position which existed when the restructuring application was received by the bank.
Do the dynamics of private capital accumulation inevitably lead to the concentration of wealth in fewer hands, or do the balancing forces of growth, competition, and technological progress reduce inequality?
It intervenes in the market to curb excessive volatility and anchor expectations.
High-frequency data for Q2 indicates that economic activity remains resilient.
In macroeconomics, the subject is typically a nation and how all markets interact to generate big phenomena that economists call aggregate variables.
Liquidity refers to the extent to which financial assets can be sold at close to full market value at short notice.
Broadly, the policy of income recognition should be objective and based on the record of recovery, rather than on any subjective considerations.
Therefore, such amounts of interest do not become overdue and hence NPA, with reference to the date of debit of interest.
The possibility of linking India's payment systems to other jurisdictions, including the ongoing initiative of interlinking India's fast payment system - UPI - with similar systems in other jurisdictions, will enhance cross-border payment arrangements, including remittances.
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) is assuming greater importance in the energy segment as it is used to operate Power Plants and Industrial (fertilizer) Plants.
However, while marketplaces allow you to grow sales, they do not enable you to grow a sustainable business and create your own marketable brand.
Payment Aggregators (PAs) play an important role in the payments ecosystem and hence were brought under regulations in March 2020 and designated as Payment System Operators (PSOs).
The current regulations are, however, applicable to Payment Aggregators processing online or e-commerce transactions.
Ricardo's insight was that such a country would still benefit from trading according to its comparative advantage, exporting products in which its absolute advantage was greatest, and importing products in which its absolute advantage was comparatively less (even if still positive).
Bank credit grew at an accelerated pace of 16.2 percent y-o-y as on September 9, 2022, as against 6.7 percent a year ago.
Loans for pre-harvest and post-harvest activities cover spraying, weeding, harvesting, sorting, grading and transporting of their own farm produce.
Medium & long-term loans for agriculture and allied activities will cover the purchase of agricultural machinery, for irrigation and other developmental activities undertaken on the farm.
Banking supervisors are examining the exposure of traditional banks to shadow banks and trying to contain it through better capital and liquidity regulations because this exposure allowed shadow banks to affect the traditional financial sector and the economy more generally.
Since the global financial crisis, the official sector is collecting more and better information and searching for hidden vulnerabilities.
The market-clearing price is determined by the requirement that supplies equal demand at that price.
The model's equations determine the level of supply and demand as a function of price and other variables (for example, income).
The current account balance is then the trade balance plus net factor income (such as interest and dividends from foreign investments or workers' remittances) and transfers from abroad (such as foreign aid), which are usually a small fraction of the total.
The trade balance is the difference between the value of exports of goods and services and the value of imports of goods and services.
The constant efforts have resulted in the improvement of our ratings in the Global EoDB ranking and addressing the challenges faced by MSMEs in connecting to GVCs, said Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Shri Giriraj Singh while delivering the keynote address during the inauguration of the 15th SME Global Summit organized by the Ministry of MSME in partnership with CII, on 19 - 20 December 2018 in New Delhi.
Taking into account these factors, the inflation projection is retained at 6.7 percent in 2022- 23, with Q2 at 7.1 percent; Q3 at 6.5 percent; and Q4 at 5.8 percent, with risks evenly balanced.
India's import growth, though decelerating, outpaced export growth.
At present, growth accounting is mainly focused on economic performance (growth rate, fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP, government debt as a percent of GDP, tax revenue as a percent of GDP, etc.) and social performance (poverty, inequality, level of employment, nutrition level of population, etc.).
The current economic discussions are heavily tilted towards a balance between social and economic performance and somewhat neglect their interactions with environmental performance.
The fair value of the loan after restructuring will be computed as the present value of cash flows representing the interest at the rate charged on the advance on restructuring and the principal, discounted at a rate equal to the bank's BPLR as on the date of restructuring plus the appropriate term premium and credit risk premium for the borrower category on the date of restructuring.
Subsequently, to ease the liquidity pressures and safeguard financial stability, the Reserve Bank of India stepped in with a Special Liquidity Facility for MFs (SLF-MF) amounting to 50,000 crores, which helped to restore confidence in the financial markets.
The recent sharp rate hikes and forward guidance about further big rate hikes have caused a tightening of financial conditions, extreme volatility, and risk aversion.
The full-value paid notes will be treated as chest remittances by the RBI Issue Office, while the half-value paid notes and rejected notes will be treated as notes tendered for adjudication and processed accordingly.
There has been tremendous growth in the volume of debt securities in India.
Despite this unsettling global environment, the Indian economy continues to be resilient.
There is nervousness in financial markets, with potential consequences for the real economy and financial stability.
Where the number of notes presented by a person is more than 5 pieces but not exceeding 5,000 in value, the tenderer shall be advised to send such notes to a nearby currency chest branch by insured post giving his/her bank account details (a/c no, branch name, IFSC, etc.) or get them exchanged thereat in person.
The Court also observed that privacy of personal data and facts is an essential aspect of the right to privacy and it is therefore imperative that while collecting data for issuance of CBDC, best interest of the citizens should be prioritised, only those personal identifiable data may be collected which is necessary and use these data only for the purpose for which it is collected.
A cybercriminal attacks a computer or a network to reach other computers in order to disable or damage data or services.
All packaged and canned food items contain a very high level of sodium because of the presence of salt that is used as a preservative.
While the vehicle is in motion an unrestrained CRS could fling through the vehicle interior in the event of sudden braking, maneuver or an accident.
But, on that very morning, one of the white prisoners whom Narapat Singh had released came to the English camp and informed the general that he had heard Narapat Singh say that he would evacuate the fort, but not until he had had his vengeance.
At this time, the chief officer of the army of Lahore was one Robert Montgomery.
In the camp at Mian Mir, though the Sepoys outnumbered the English soldiers by four to one, the English officers had no suspicion about them until the news from Meerut arrived, and when the news did arrive, they found it difficult to ascertain whether they were or were not secretly in communication with the Meerut Sepoys.
These are not only addictive but also have an adverse effect on the brain.
Day after day, new troops were coming in on both sides.
If there had been any personal malice, Mangal Pandey's name would have been on the list of assassins and not of martyrs.
He eyed me for a moment, and politely saying, 'I am very sorry, we are full up', bade me goodbye.
Have you ever thought about what will happen if the garbage is not removed from our homes and surroundings?
In recent years, the world around us has seen a lot of changes due to the use of Digital Technologies.
In the past, a letter would take days to reach, and every recipient would get his or her own copy and respond separately.
The moving spirits of revolutions are deemed holy or unholy in proportion, as the principle underlying them is beneficial or wicked.
Kaba Gandhi married four times in succession, having lost his wife each time by death.
It became the social responsibility of the writers to write with the purpose of awakening people to ideas of justice and freedom from slavery.
This fact alone is sufficient to form an estimate of his capacity and character.
We could clearly see these thousands of Sepoys from the Ridge, entering the city with perfect discipline and drill playing martial tunes, and waving variegated flags and banners.
They had read the Ramayana and the Mahabharata together; they had read together the accounts of the warlike deeds of the Mahrattas, and their young hearts had throbbed together at the noble inspiration which the stories of Hindu heroism awoke.
The nonavailability of an adequate number of cloud-free optical satellite datasets is a major constraint for using optical remote sensing data for agricultural applications during the monsoon season.
It can also reach our system when we click on a malicious advertisement on the Internet.
Seeing his cave threatened, he rushed out of the lair at Chillianwalla and, with a terrible stroke of his paw, mauled the enemy and made him bleed.
Taking them with him, Nana marched to Bithoor and threatened to attack Cawnpore.
The Sheth and his clerks gathered around me.
After him, came Xerxes II for a short while.
The brothers were deeply attached to each other.
I felt that if they agreed to the proposal, others could be persuaded to take the same line.
The most dynamic element of the urban area is the various modes of transportation.
The write-ahead-log protocol ensures that if a crash occurs, a recovery procedure can, by consulting the log, systematically find all completed and intended changes to cell storage and either restore those records to old values or set them to new values, as appropriate to the circumstance.
The trade-offs in gaining concurrency are first, that when there is more than one lock, more time is spent acquiring and releasing locks, and second, correctness arguments become more complex.
If the swimming facility is available then the life-saving technique of drowning can best be practiced by doing.
The students should be encouraged to ask questions if they have any doubts about the procedure of first aid in swimming.
It was necessary to find out how far the spirit of national freedom had awakened among the Punjab Sepoys.
This sort of sublime forgiveness was not natural to my father.
This revolt pleased Sir Henry in a way, for now, he had with him a select and faithful army consisting of the English regiment and artillery and the two regiments of Sikhs and Hindusthanees, whose loyalty to the English had been proved by severe tests.
Arms were arranged all around, breakfast was ready, the hungry mouths were chewing the first morsel; the cups of drink were filled ready.
You have earned your breakfast, British soldiers, by the sweat of your brow, not, by the free flow of blood from your bodies; so, enjoy your breakfast, with your commanders, in the cool shade of the mango groves!
You must have seen seeds growing into seedlings, which then grow and develop into plants, or pups growing into dogs, kittens into cats, and so on.
Boys are equally vulnerable to sexual abuse.
While the lightning was working destruction at Jhansi, Banka, seeing that her sons were ready to unsheathe their swords for Swaraj, threatened them that, if they did unsheathe their swords, she would herself inform the Feringhis of their designs and advise the Feringhis to behead them!
The filmmakers who were largely responsible for popularizing the stunt film were J. B. H. Wadia and his brother Homi Wadia, of Wadia Movietone.
They became the kings of this genre, starting with the railroad thriller TOOFAN MAIL (1932), which featured several fight sequences staged on the roof of a moving train.
Assamese cinema is cinema in the Assamese language, watched primarily in Assam, India.
Classic adaptations are less than transparent.
More crucially, a temporal sleight of hand and thus intention occurs.
They materialize the novel into something else and the result is a hybrid affair, a mixture of genres.
FTII launched the first-ever Online Film Appreciation Course from 15th June to 11th July 2020.
The course was organised in coordination with the National Film Archives of India, Pune.
Clad in an olive-green chiffon saree, Fatma looked every bit the begum I'd imagined her to be.
His article, an excerpt from a forthcoming book, offers a vivid picture of the subterranean world of exploitation cinema.
Full feature-length colour and sound cartoons came into their own with his Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937) which won a special Oscar.
He argues that the soundtrack was, in essence, a ritualistic celebration of traditional archetypes.
In 1912, Dadasaheb Phalke produced the first Indian animation movie, which was followed by a hiatus that lasted over 40 years.
In 1956, the Films Division set up a cartoon film unit, where Clair Weeks, the veteran Disney animator, was invited to train students.
Indian cinema is world famous for the staggering amount of films it produces: the number is constantly on the increase, and recent sources estimate that a total output of some 800 films a year are made in different cities including Madras, Bangalore, Calcutta and Hyderabad.
The two sister languages are spoken in six northern states and understood by over 500 million people on the Indian sub-continent alone reason enough for Hindi and Urdu to be chosen above the fourteen official Indian languages to become the languages of Indian Popular cinema when sound came to the Indian Silver screen in 1931.
Indian cinema never understood composite sound, says K. Hariharan, an award-winning filmmaker and teacher from Chennai.
Indian cinema thus has more than a hundred years of history, like the European or American film industry.
It is also worth labouring the point that this rethinking of film theory in the 1960s did not come via film criticism (as it did in the 1950s) but through other disciplines, namely structural linguistics and semiotics.
This pattern would repeat itself in the 1970s with psychoanalysis and philosophy pushing the debate along, and then history in the 1980s.
More modern perspectives like the New Indian Cinema appear which aim to break with the traditional Bollywoodian aesthetics.
The themes show the idea of a contemporary India where the west has been assimilated, but the tradition and the true essence of India as a diverse multilingual country are evident.
Nowadays, films gather the diversity of India through the influence of the classical epics of Sanskrit with recurrent themes like maternity and revenge, or trying to maintain the traditional values that conformed to the social hierarchy of India.
This influence is also felt in the narrative structure of films, often with digressions that make Indian films too long for the western audience.
We naturally accept this narrative convention of an exclusively male point of view.
Since the commencement of academic courses in 1960, the Institute has regularly upgraded the pedagogic curriculum, enriched the quality of cinematic learning, and augmented the infrastructure to realize its mandate of being truly a centre of excellence.
The Institute has crossed many milestones towards a new paradigm in the art and craft of filmmaking.
Taking the historical development as the chronological point of departure of the development of Indian narratives in English helps us to shed light onto the sphere of the cinematic production of India, which is considered among the so-called other cinemas or cinemas of other countries, with the marginality implied in these terms.
The dialogue was presented through inter-titles, which were often in English, and two or three Indian languages.
Sweeping economic changes, the onset of satellite television, increased access to more western sounds and production techniques, greater formal distribution and exhibition of Hindi cinema around the world, all come into play significantly.
In these hands, the cinema lost much of its visual character and was turned into a literary and wordy product.
Sometimes there was only a piano accompaniment, but there were several films where a violin, a harmonium, tablas and other musical instruments could be added.
The score was live and helped to dramatise the narrative.
The stunt film and the adventure action film did not appeal to everyone: the educated classes saw them as populist, vulgar and a corrupting influence.
This division in film styles is why distributors and producers continue to see films as being of two main categories: films for the classes and films for the masses.
The winter edition of the Film Appreciation Course was launched on 23rd November 2020.
Thus, our focus shifts from a desire to know the times the novel is referring to in socio-economic or political terms, to a desire to see the times (in terms of costume and decor).
Its alumni have been earning recognition regularly through their mastery over film-making.
With state-of-the-art facilities, FTII provides a creative ambiance to inspire budding filmmakers with an innovative language of artistic expression.
What drives us, the audience, is a nostalgia for the present times of the novel, the lived moment of Austen's heroines, or Pagnol's and Forster's characters, our imagined past, not that of the original text for which that present time represents unwanted change.
A pedon is morphologically described in the field and sampled for laboratory investigations for their characterization and classification.
The delineated units on a map will be given a specific symbol, colour and name.
Thornthwaite and Mather model is widely used for computing water balance.
Above 60 miles (100 km) from Earth's surface, the chemical composition of air becomes strongly dependent on altitude and the atmosphere becomes enriched with lighter gases (atomic oxygen, helium and hydrogen).
Climate change will make some agricultural areas more suitable for production and other areas less so.
The type of information collected can range from detailed notes describing a site to a photograph of the site.
During March, heat wave conditions were observed in most places, with Severe Heat wave conditions at isolated places occurring over West Rajasthan during 29-31 March.
Even in radiometrically corrected scene composites, some noise will remain.
The most important sources are local atmospheric effects, such as haze, smoke, or cumulus clouds in an otherwise clear-sky scene.
For these reasons, research in recent years has emphasised the use of image composites.
High relative humidities in the lower and middle troposphere are also required for cyclone development.
Similarly, forest land that is currently dominated by lower-valued species may become more valuable in the future, and vice versa.
However, this approach is fundamentally limited because the probability of cloud-free scenes decreases as the area covered by one scene increases.
In this direction, an attempt has been made to calibrate soil properties to soil reflectance using the Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS).
It relies on the interpreter to employ visual cues such as tone, texture, shape, pattern, and relationship to other objects to identify the different land cover classes.
About 45% of the annual rainfall of this subdivision (about 60% for coastal regions) is accounted for by the rainfall during this period.
While salinization is mostly associated with coastal areas and younger alluvial plains, alkalization happens mostly in inland and older alluvial plains.
Adaptation strategies include banning new construction in vulnerable areas with a high risk of flooding, minimizing flashy runoff from impervious surfaces, changing the requirements for stormwater retention structures in new developments, and protecting wetlands that buffer runoff from heavy rainstorms.
Land use planning should reduce urban heat effects through the maintenance of green areas, and the use of different building materials.
With its deep ravines, cascading waterfalls and thick teak forests, Panna National Park is predominantly a plateau, with sprawling flatlands punctuated by hills, deep valleys and gorges.
Major factors affecting water quality are suspended sediments, algae, chemicals, dissolved organic matter (DOM), thermal releases, aquatic vascular plants, pathogens, and oils.
Some of these parameters, like suspended sediments, algae, DOM, oils, aquatic vascular plants, and thermal releases, directly influence the energy spectra and hence can be measured by remote sensing techniques.
Removal of topsoil while mining for precious metals and affecting its surrounding agricultural fields is another dimension of land degradation.
Removing plant residues also reduces soil organic matter content.
Salinization and alkalization are problems in semiarid and arid areas.
Each group of soils is typified by a pedon or their association.
Soil mapping comprises the identification, description and delineation of different kinds of soils based on physiography, climate and vegetation of the area, confirmation through fieldwork and laboratory data and depicting on a standard base map.
This will increase stress on natural ecosystems.
Therefore, comprehensive information on soil resources, and their potential/limitations/capabilities, is required for a variety of purposes such as command area development, soil conservation in catchment areas, sustainable agriculture, watershed management, reclamation of degraded lands, etc.
This review is not exhaustive and only serves to highlight ways in which present techniques are complemented by those models that combine cellular and agent-based models.
If the land cover delineations are done on a computer screen, the land cover map is created during the delineation process.
The analyst views the image on either a computer screen or a hard-copy printout and then draws a polygon around areas that are identified as a particular land cover type.
This increase in temperature is due to the absorption of intense solar radiation by the limited amount of remaining molecular oxygen.
Temperature and water vapor content in the troposphere decrease rapidly with altitude.
Water vapor plays a major role in regulating air temperature because it absorbs solar energy and thermal radiation from the planet's surface.
The water balance is useful for predicting some of the human impacts on the hydrologic cycle.
Then it increases gradually up to the stratopause.
It degrades an area by two processes, namely frost heaving and frost shattering.
The soil reflectance data can be acquired in the laboratory or in the field and from air/space.
Manas is situated along the foothills of Himalayas in the north eastern state of Assam.
In the political environment, however, other influences also shape decision-making, including cultures, beliefs, societal interests and competition between parties.
Normally, Calling Attention is taken up after the completion of the Question Hour and the laying of papers on the Table of the House and before any other item on the List of Business is taken up.
Hence, we have to be ready for collective action and mutual cooperation to combat the pandemic and mobilise resources for a humanitarian response based on multilateralism.
It is now (2019-2023) accompanied by an integrated National Antimicrobial Resistance and Residue Surveillance Plan for the animal health care, plant, food safety and environment sectors.
In the past, surcharges on direct taxes have generally been levied to meet the revenue needs arising from natural calamities.
India became a signatory to the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992 in May 1994, and the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization 2010 in October 2014.
India's support is guided by the needs and priorities of the Government and the people of Afghanistan; activities are undertaken in partnership with the Afghan government, and projects are spread across Afghanistan in a wide range of areas.
Details will be announced by my colleague, the Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas.
The government will set up an expert group to advise on a viable and sustainable system of pricing petroleum products.
During 2008-09, NREGA provided employment opportunities for more than 4.47 crore households, as against 3.39 crore households covered in 2007-08.
It is widely acknowledged that the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) first implemented in February 2006, has been a magnificent success.
We are committed to providing a real wage of Rs. 100 a day as an entitlement under the NREGA.
Though prices have declined since then, they are already about double the lows reached in the wake of the global financial crisis.
I propose to allocate Rs. 500 crores for the rehabilitation of internally displaced persons and the reconstruction of the northern and eastern areas of Sri Lanka.
Once you have established the first presence in the US, it makes sense to launch a light version of a local branded online store and focus on service and reputation building, before providing a fully functional US website, and mobile experience and implementing a more aggressive and riskier marketing strategy in order to acquire new customers.
Given the sophistication and transformation brought in by the technological advancements that have further widened its reach, media has acquired a distinctive character of molding public opinion today.
In the quest for greater equity, I propose to increase the rate of MAT to 15 percent of book profits from the present rate of 10 percent.
Securing online appointments for submission of passport applications at Passport Kendras has been simplified.
On the basis of these recommendations, the Government has decided to substantially improve the pension of pre-1 January 2006 defense pensioners below officer rank (PBOR) and bring pre-10 October 1997 pensioners on par with post-10 October 1997 pensioners.
Hence, on this occasion today, I would like to call upon the Presiding Officers of the Parliaments across the world to play a proactive role in formulating a concrete action plan that puts people at the centre of the response to achieve more equitable and resilient outcomes for all and Parliaments will have to play a constructive role in ensuring its effective implementation.
More than 46 lakh BPL families in eighteen States and UTs have been issued biometric smart cards.
The live telecast of proceedings started in 1994.
Commemorating the International Day of Democracy on 15 September 2021, the Sansad TV has been launched in the august presence of the Vice-President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi and Speaker, Lok Sabha, Shri Om Birla at the Parliament House Annexe in New Delhi.
So as to bring about the economy, efficiency and effectiveness, the Presiding Officers of both the Houses of Parliament - the Vice-President of India and Chairman of Rajya Sabha and the Speaker of Lok Sabha - agreed to merge the two Channels.
Generally, three days are allotted for the discussion.
Since 2014, it has been the Modi Government's priority to make it easier for the average Indian to obtain and renew passports, both at home and abroad.
However, in the next campaign, offshore basins (East Coast, West Coast and Andaman) up to EEZ boundaries are being taken up.
The appraisal program under NSP was planned to cover onland basins.
Till February 2022, a total of 22,555 LKM 2D Broadband seismic data in the Andaman offshore has been acquired.
These resources provide us with the means to bridge the critical gaps that remain in our development efforts, particularly with regard to the welfare of the vulnerable segments of our population.
The aim will be to reduce by half the current level of female illiteracy in three years.
But the civil services, the police and the army were the close preserve of the Muslims.
Electronic Token Issuance upon arrival and an electronic Exit Letter after completion of service at the PSK has enabled in providing of paperless service, protecting the environment and promoting the green initiatives of Digital India.
Such a seamless process has helped in increasing the speed of service delivery and reduced public grievances.
There is no requirement under the rules to consult the Leader of the House or the Minister concerned in this regard.
These measures have to encompass all aspects of the Budget such as subsidies, taxes, expenditures and disinvestment.
This is essential for maintaining a stable balance of payments, moderate interest rates and a steady flow of external capital for corporate investment.
On top of that, US shoppers are happy to spend their money abroad with the UK being their favoured destination (49%) followed by China (39%), Canada (34%), Hong Kong (20%) and Australia (18%).
State Nodal Agencies (SNAs) are mandated to select implementing agencies to install, operate and maintain public charging stations and battery swapping/charging facilities in the state.
Our Government's approach to the banking and financial sector has been to ensure robust oversight and regulation while expanding financial access and deepening markets.
This is because growth is affected by both genetic and environmental factors.
Because of its effect on food production, economy and security, antimicrobial resistance is also considered a threat to health, national security and the economy.
The Charaka Samhita and Sushruta Samhita, developed around 2500 BC, are the main treatises of Ayurveda fully available today.
Cardio-respiratory endurance reflects the ability of the body's circulatory and respiratory systems to supply fuel during sustained physical activity.
The prescriptions were available for 13 out of 18 districts (states) of Homeopathy, Ayurveda, Siddha, and Unani systems, as per the availability of AYUSH doctors.
Suleman's parents were quite tall.
Further, they expressed that the communication barrier between practitioners of Ayurveda and Biomedicine, meager research work with respect to the safety and efficacy of Ayurvedic medicines and therapies, and inadequate policy initiatives are the important obstacles in realizing functional integration between Ayurveda and Biomedicine.
A higher financial allocation needs to be made for the AYUSH services.
A mere 3% of the total budget is grossly inadequate and, with a large number of institutions, can only ensure the poor quality of services in them.
If you don't do anything because a study said not to, that may not be good enough as a defense.
The prudent doctor vs. the prudent patient: who decides for whom?
Shockingly, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), not only are 430 million people currently living with disabling hearing loss, but more than 1 billion people aged between 12 and 35 years are at risk of hearing loss due to exposure to loud sounds at music gigs and clubs or on their devices.
We should define individual risk.
In fact, the caloric density, protein, carbohydrate and fat in breast milk are very important for the growth of the child.
A casualty from drowning needs to be treated by a medical doctor, even if he/she seems to recover, because, as explained in Box 12.2, a secondary drowning may occur in him/her at a later stage.
India has a comparative advantage in the area of Complementary Medicine and can be a world leader in the field.
This is because India has an immensely rich and mature indigenous medical heritage of its own and strong foundations in western biomedical sciences.
These are classified as anti-virals, anti-fungals, anti-protozoals and antibiotics according to the group of microbes they act upon.
These may include reduced feed or water intake, lethargy, watery or pale white mucoid discharge from the eyes, inflammation in the eyes, and abnormal stool (colour and form).
Another important loco-regional administration of therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals is reported for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (liver cancer), where radiolabeled micro-spheres of specific size or radiolabeled Lipiodol (a highly viscous liquid-ethyl ester of fatty acid derived from poppy seed oil) are injected through the hepatic artery of the patient.
This treatment modality, which is known as "Radiation Synovectomy" or "Radiosynoviorthesis," employs the administration of radiolabeled particulates or radiolabeled colloids in the synovial cavities of the affected joints.
Cochlear implants also benefit people who have more significant hearing loss.
People who are hard of hearing usually communicate through spoken language and can benefit from hearing aids, cochlear implants, and other devices, as well as captioning.
The per-rectal examination is a quick method (an experienced person takes 12 minutes).
Radiopharmaceuticals are highly pure radioactive pharmaceutical preparations that are safe enough for human administration and used for either diagnosis or therapy of various kinds of human ailments.
However, the misuse and overuse of antimicrobials are accelerating this process.
The strategic plan sets out a coordinated and collaborative One Health approach involving key stakeholders in government and other sectors.
Attendance of patients in OPD and IPD of the Institute has continuously increased.
There is a medico-legal aspect.
While the quality varied across states, in almost all, the quality of infrastructure, presence of human resources, supply of medicines, and records were found to be unsatisfactory.
There is no generic blueprint for how to make a health report.
The efforts to co-locate Ayurveda centers along with bio-medical facilities across India through programs like the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) are limited to the extent of only physical proximity between biomedicine and Ayurveda and far away from the possibility of functional integration granulated to the level of clinical service delivery together.
If the animal stays away from other animals in a herd, it indicates that it is having some health problem.
The Medical Officer would not let me go to him again and insisted on sending an inspector to me instead.
Trans fats result from adding hydrogen to vegetable oils used in commercial baked goods and for cooking in most restaurants and fast-food chains.
Unsaturated fats are those fats that are liquid at room temperature.
WHO has a responsibility to take all appropriate steps to prevent and respond to discrimination, abuse of authority, and harassment, including sexual harassment (collectively referred to as abusive conduct) in the workplace or in connection with work.
What is the harm?
The aim of the third level is to present and communicate the results in a way that supports decision-making.
The word Yoga has two meanings; the first comes from the root Yujir or Union, and the second is derived from a different root Yuja, which means Samadhi; the highest state of mind and absolute knowledge.
Radiopharmaceuticals employ the nuclear properties of the radionuclides as well as the pharmacological properties of the pharmaceuticals to show their effectiveness as diagnostic or therapeutic agents.
The term "Green Economy" was first coined in a 1989 report for the Government of the United Kingdom by a group of leading environmental economists, titled Blueprint for a Green Economy.
A white wine made from kiwi fruit called Naara Aaba comes from Arunachal Pradesh and is produced by Lambu-Subu Food and Beverages at Hong village in the Lower Subansiri district.
To reduce the height, press the release button to move downwards.
Fodder crops at very early stages of growth have high protein content and are usually easily digestible, but their yield (total volume or biomass) is low.
Armed with a passion for experimental ideas and geared with confidence and determination, Zeinorin from Ukhrul is not a regular entrepreneur.
Basically, it involves the generation of biomass that can be converted to convenient energy-containing substances in different ways, such as thermal conversion, chemical conversion, and biochemical conversion.
These are produced through biological processes rather than fuel produced by geological processes such as coal and petroleum.
DEEP Modern Chulha Society of Development and Environment Protection (DEEP) developed the Modern DEEP Chulha that uses biomass to reduce the consumption of wood by 50%.
Gazette notification of 197 notified indigenous breeds was done by 2020.
Enbiolet Green Solution Foundation (GSF) has created a bio-toilet solution for hygienic sanitation in villages and slums in cities that lack sewage systems.
ICAR has targeted to develop 30 processable varieties of field and horticultural crops by the year 2024 to substitute imports.
Foreseeing a growing demand for radioisotopes and advanced research in nuclear science, the necessity for another reactor with comparatively higher neutron flux was felt way back in the 1970s, which ultimately resulted in the construction and commissioning of the R-5 reactor (later renamed as Dhruva reactor) at BARC, Trombay.
HLLW contains fission products, minor actinides, traces of uranium & plutonium, corrosion products, and chemicals added during reprocessing.
HLLW is immobilized in an inert glass (vitreous) matrix, stored for a few decades in an air-cooled vault, and then planned to be disposed of in a deep repository.
Jersey cows produce milk having about 5 percent fat content, while the milk of Holstein-Friesian contains about 3.5 percent fat.
Human safety mainly focuses on the health, hygiene, and environment of all people, including customers, employees, and management.
While cesium recovery is aimed in the second cycle, Strontium-Actinide-Lanthanide combined separation is achieved in the third cycle from HLLW.
Microwave remote sensing techniques have the all-weather capability as the atmosphere is transparent to microwaves at lower frequencies, they penetrate clouds, and they are suitable for day and night operations owing to the independence of microwave sensors from the sun's illumination.
Uranium, either in natural or enriched form, is commonly used as fuel in nuclear power plants for nuclear fission.
Besides, earliness has been induced in soybean.
The racking Back method is useful when the full length of the wall cannot be built at one time.
This has brought focused attention of all concerned towards chemical-free farming, including organic farming, and techniques that recover, revitalize, and restore the soil and the environment.
The temperature requirement is 24°–27°C during the daytime and 15°–17°C during the night hours, with the optimum being 15°–27°C with 75 percent relative humidity.
Various events are being organized by the International Trade Center, which highlights the needs of small businesses and entrepreneurs and provides support for them as they grow like Digital Trade: Opportunities for youth in the MENA region, small businesses for the SDGs-Photo exhibition, young entrepreneurs in sport and Investing in Women.
In this process, an organic stream containing solvent, traces of selective extractant, and the aqueous waste are kept in intimate contact by employing strong agitation.
Cesium glass-containing dispenser is assembled remotely to the dedicated re-melting furnace for making Cs glass pencils with precise control of Cesium glass in each pencil.
In addition, reliable and timely estimates and seasonal crop acreage and production estimates are important for the formulation of marketing strategies such as export/import, price fixation, and public distribution.
A substantial increase in crop production is possible by bringing additional land under cultivation (horizontal approach) and improved crop management (vertical approach) technologies such as the use of high-yielding input-responsive, energy-intensive, and stress-tolerant varieties, increased irrigation, and integrated crop nutrition and protection.
The gearshift lever is mounted on the center console between the two front seats.
But it would be inaccurate to attribute this change merely to technology.
Combining indicators for all these parameters, a qualitative grade was composed for the quality of facilities in each state.
These calipers can be used to calculate the length, outside, and inside diameters.
Bricks should be tested for hardness and durability before they are used in masonry.
Cereal price pressure is spreading from wheat to rice due to the likely lower Kharif paddy production.
Due to the active initiatives taken up by the Government of India and other stakeholders, the reach of Ayurveda has expanded along with widespread consumer acceptance.
Further, excluding the therapeutic applications, the radioisotope is to be converted to a non-leachable form so that no inadvertent release of radioactivity occurs during its use.
Towards utilization of a radioisotope, first and foremost, it must be separated from HLLW in a radio-chemically pure form.
The credit requisition contains information on the desired products, details of possible vendors, delivery instructions, accounting details, contact information, etc.
It is the sale of goods and services through the Internet.
Accordingly, the report lodged was sent to the officials in Gujarat.
The Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1978 stipulates the legal age of marriage as 18 for girls and 21 for boys, but social customs encourage early marriage even now.
However, BSNL does not have any statutory, regulatory, or police powers to impose strict civil liability.
For the aforesaid reasons, we are of the considered opinion that the Tribunal did not commit any error in coming to the conclusion that M/s. Kwality Ice Cream and BBLIL are not related persons.
The transaction between them is of the nature of principal to principal and the price was the sole consideration for the sale of goods.
It is submitted that thereafter the elections to the State Assembly were held on 11.04.2019 and Shri Y. Jaganmohan Reddy became the Chief Minister and took oath on 30.05.2019.
The view expressed in Ramesh Kumari's case (supra) was reiterated in Lallan Chaudhary and Ors. V. State of Bihar (AIR 2006 SC 3376).
On the basis of these reports, BSNL made its own inquiries by calling the local CLI number, i.e., 0281-3041000.
They are yet to register an FIR.
It is immaterial whether damages for the use and occupation are in fact claimed or not by the owner in an action against the trespasser.
It has entered into an agreement with BBLIL for a period ending on March 21, 1997.
Later, an agreement was entered into with M/s. HLL with effect from March 22, 1997.
It is contended that the partisan approach of the authorities in the State of Gujarat is writ large, which is evident from a bare reading of the counter affidavit filed.
GPL is primarily designed for providing public license to a software.
It entered into an agreement for the sale of the entire production to BBLIL, which later merged with HLL for marketing.
Kwality Ice Cream (respondent-assessee) is engaged in the manufacture of ice cream falling under the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (for short, the Act).
The important question considered at this short session was the composition of the federal legislature.
Moreover, learned senior counsel submitted that it is technically impossible for BSNL to trace or block a call with a tampered (masked) CLI.
That, on a given day, a single POI handles millions of minutes of calls that are handed over to BSNL, and in such a situation, it is not commercially feasible to decipher which call is genuine and which call is without a CLI or a tampered CLI.
On the interpretation of clause 6.4.6, learned counsel submitted that the said clause carries a heavy penalty; that the said clause is attracted in cases of tampering or wrong routing of calls attributable to some fault on the part of the operator and not otherwise; and since in the present case the actions complained are attributable to an unscrupulous subscriber and not to Reliance, clause 6.4.6 cannot be invoked.
Some ransomware are sent as email attachments in spam mails.
This is because the Contract Act does not contemplate any other amount being received by one contracting party (BSNL) from the other contracting party (Reliance).
The petitioner projects that she has fully cooperated with the Mumbai Police in their inquiry but will have no objection if the investigation is conducted by the CBI.
The GNU General public license (GPL) and the Creative Commons (CC) are two popular categories of public licenses.
The NGT has, in the present case, abdicated its jurisdiction and entrusted judicial functions to an administrative expert committee.
She set up a plea that the subject room was situated in the slum area declared under the 1971 Act and that the suit filed by the first respondent was not maintainable without the written permission of the Competent Authority in view of the prohibition contained in Section 22(1)(a) of that Act.
As was held in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences case and re-iterated in Gangadhar's case, the remedy available is as set out above by filing a complaint before the magistrate.
Though it was faintly suggested that there was a conflict in the views in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences case, Gangadhar's case, Hari Singh's case, Minu Kumari's case, and Ramesh Kumari's case, we find that the view expressed in Ramesh Kumari's case related to the action required to be taken by the police when any cognizable offense is brought to its notice.
The course available, when the police do not carry out the statutory requirements under Section 154 was directly in issue in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences case, Gangadhars' case, Hari Singhs' case, and Minu Kumaris' case.
The decision was hence left to the expert agencies of the Union of India.
The first appellate court reversed the findings of the trial court on issue nos. 1 and 4 and held that the 4 suits filed by the first respondent were maintainable without the permission of the Competent Authority as she was a trespasser and in the case of a trespasser in occupation of a slum area governed by the 1971 Act, the permission of the Competent Authority was not necessary.
The petitioner and the deceased were in a live-in relationship but on 8.6.2020, a few days prior to the death of the actor, she had shifted to her own residence at Mumbai.
The object of the proceedings is merely to ascertain whether a person has died under suspicious circumstances or an unnatural death, and if so, what is the apparent cause of the death.
The question regarding the details as to how the deceased was assaulted, who assaulted him or under what circumstances he was assaulted is foreign to the ambit and scope of the proceedings under Section 174 of the Code.
As per sub-section (3), on receipt of such an application, the Competent Authority, by order in writing, may either grant or refuse to grant such permission after giving an opportunity to the parties of being heard and after making such summary inquiries into the circumstances of the case as it thinks fit.
Sub-Section (2) of Section 22 requires the person desiring to obtain permission to make an application in writing to the Competent Authority.
A trademark includes any visual symbol, word, name, design, slogan, label, etc., that distinguishes the brand or commercial enterprise from other brands or commercial enterprises.
Whenever any information is received by the police about the alleged commission of an offence that is cognizable, there is a duty to register the FIR.
Land use policies that discourage shoreline building will leave communities more flexibility to deal with sea level rise.
Where there are beachfront or bayfront houses, the owners will try to protect their property, through shoreline hardening, for example.
A plague broke out in this village, and I saw evident danger to the safety of the Ashram children.
During the season, heatwave/severe heatwave conditions were observed in March and April.
In the month of May, no significant heat wave conditions were observed.
After supping on the best Hyderabadi kebabs and qubani ka meetha I've ever had, we settled down on huge, heavily cushioned sofa chairs, sipping chai, to have a chat about her life and films.
Fatma Begum has lived a life away from the arc lights for several years now, so when this first lady of Indian cinema, who's never given a media interview, agreed to speak to me on 3 May 2013, I promptly made my way to her once-impressive but now crumbling residence in Dhanraj Mahal, where she lives with her daughter Zubeida.
More dreadful variants of this virus are expected in the coming days.
The highest impact likely will be in Asia and Africa, which likely will account for an estimated 4.7 million and 4.2 million deaths, respectively.
Here I found Abdul Gani Sheth expecting me, and he gave me a cordial greeting.
So I asked the cabman to drive to Muhammad Kasam Kamruddin's shop.
I had been observing that, far from protecting the Indians, Chinese and others, these officers were grinding them down.
During the inquiry, attempts were made to compel him to reveal the names of other conspirators.
Media is the most potent tool that connects the Parliament with its people.
On reaching Rajkot, I reported myself to the Medical officer the next morning.
Our country owes a deep debt of gratitude to our valiant ex-Servicemen.
The initial response has been very good.
Women's rights are indeed human rights.
Since the centenary of Indian cinema is a milestone that cannot be ignored, our choice of theme for this issue was pretty much unavoidable.
During this phase, effective policy initiatives have started providing fruitful results.
Some of the government initiatives like Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (to create mass awareness on cleanliness and environmental pollution, to eliminate open defecation, and improve solid waste management) and Namami Gange (significant reduction of pollution, conservation and resuscitation of the river Ganga) are worth mentioning here.
Before 2014, 77 Passport Seva Kendras (PSK) were operational in the country.
The last date for applying online was 31.01.2020.
On this occasion, a blood donation camp was also organized by the Society on 12th August 2022.
The program concluded with a cultural event entitled 'Partition and Independence: Reflections in Literature & Cinema' organized by the employees of the Society.
The staff members of the Society, the Council members, and other members and well-wishers took an active part in both organizing the program and also remaining present all through the day.
A total of 41 participants from all over India participated in the course.
The country has withstood the shocks from COVID-19 and the conflict in Ukraine.
Mahatma Gandhi's ideals of Satyagraha instilled in every Indian an indomitable self-belief and spirit of sacrifice for the larger good.
Tourism 2020 vision is the World Tourism Organization's long-term forecast and assessment of the development of tourism up to the first 20 years of the new millennium.
The area reported by various government agencies under wastelands varies from 38Mha to 175Mha.
We are also going to organize a few important lectures, including the program of observance of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav'.
Professor Sudipta Sen received the Sir William Jones Memorial Medal for 2021 and delivered a brief talk on William Jones and the Rule of Law in Late Eighteenth Century Calcutta on 22.07.2022.
Every day I had complaints like this: 'The rightful ones are not admitted, whilst those who have no right are smuggled in on payment of 100'.
The iron beams lying in the Surya temple at Konark are still bigger.
The Jain doctrine of non-acquisition could lead to more equitable distribution of wealth and resources in society.
Likewise, two particularly evil human beings, Grehma and Bendva, are mentioned in Chapters 32.12, 32.13, and 32.14 and Chapters 49.1 and 49.2 respectively.
Its goal is neither nihilism, for there is nothing permanent to annihilate nor eternalism, for there is no permanent soul to eternalize.
Great was his compassion for the two dear ones at this parting moment.
He was not worried about the future worldly happiness and comfort of the mother and child as they had everything in abundance and were well protected.
At about the same time, I heard of a well-known Hindu having been converted to Christianity.
In the following verses, we are told that God appoints Zarathustra as a teacher for mankind, to tell them of the path of truth and how to live in accordance with truth.
In the three worlds there is not, and there will never be, any to equal him in martial or spiritual prowess.
All facilities were provided for those more spiritually inclined to lead holy lives in solitude in accordance with their temperaments, and most of these teachers had large followings of disciples.
So, it was not difficult for the ascetic Gotama to find another religious teacher who was more competent than the former.
The partial observance is laid down for the householders with additional seven vows.
Likewise, the second grader, the Airyamna, or friend, is attacked by those who slander him; such persons should be kept away from him.
Singing the glory of the Lord through the Divine Word can redeem a repentant sinner, and, thus, the doctrine of Karma ceases to operate.
The highest is the Xvaitu, who is self-sufficient and no longer requires religious instruction; the Airyamna, or friend, who befriends people to keep them from going astray; and the Verezanah, or worker, who is the active field worker on the ground and is to spread the faith.
The Buddha cites this illustration of fire and adds that the question is wrongly put.
The Buddha says it is not right to state that an Arahant exists or does not exist after death.
Till His last moment, he served humanity both by example and by precept.
In this vow, the householder must not have a sensual relationship with anybody but his own lawfully wedded spouse.
The six set out for heaven together, but all die on the way, except Yudhishthira, who reaches the gates of heaven accompanied only by a small dog, who turns out to be an incarnation of the god Dharma.
The idealistic approach of Sikhism is that it recognises the existence of the same heavenly light in every human being, rich or poor, high or low, irrespective of caste, creed, color, race, sex, religion, or nationality.
Therefore the doors of the Sikh temple called Gurdwara (House of the Guru) are open to all in this world without any prejudice or social discrimination.
It is also the savior of the future.
In perhaps the most important verse in the Gathas, Chapter 45, Verse 8, Prophet Zarathustra finally gets to perceive Almighty God himself with his mind's eye, pursuant to which the Holy Trinity of good thoughts, good words, and good deeds is laid down as the path of truth which mankind is to follow.
The mode of revelation is pointed out in some of these verses, which is the Pure Mind entering Zarathustra and telling him what he should tell mankind.
The third person mentioned by name is Bendva, who again is said to be both a liar and duplicitous by nature, thus leading Zarathustra to forbid his flock from associating with such persons in general.
The rest of the Gita deepens and supplements the ideas presented before the epiphany about the importance of self-control and faith, of equanimity and unselfishness, but above all, of bhakti, or devotion.
In these verses, Zarathustra chooses to be like Spenta Mainyu, who is equated with the highest that any human mind can achieve.
Then he takes Arjuna on a tour of philosophical ideas and ways of salvation.
This part of the Gita culminates in an overwhelming vision: Krishna allows Arjuna to see his supernal form, the Vishvarupa, which strikes terror into Arjuna's heart.
Then there was a bastard king, Darius Nothos; Nothos means the son of somebody who is illegitimate, like William the Conqueror.
Then we have Artaxerxes II, the man who was thoughtful.
He is said to have illumined the material side of this earth instead of the spiritual and is thus condemned by Zarathustra.
The first is Yima, who is none other than the famous King Jamshed, after whom the Navroz festival on the 21st of March every year is named.
To remove this delusion, one takes the vow of non-possession and realizes the perfection of the soul.
Unlike the nagara temple, the Dravida temple is enclosed within a compound wall.
However, he is a Soshyant who has come with a message from God to save mankind from evil.
We have already seen how Mother Earth wanted a protector to be appointed and how Zarathustra was so appointed.
When Arjuna refuses to fight, Krishna has no patience with him.
Thus, in a significant verse, those who are self-reliant in the first rung of the Magha brotherhood should beware of perverse thought, the idea being that humility and not arrogance ought to be followed by persons who have reached the highest grade.
During the Tokyo Olympic cycle, I would go to a psychologist, but I never made it a priority and didn't look after my body.
I still needed to train hard.
It's great to be an Olympian, but there is stress and anxiety afterwards.
And yes, you are an Olympian, but what do you get for it?
I didn't achieve it before he died in 2014.
I felt he was there with me, watching over me tonight.
A nominated member of the team is allowed to strike at the goal from the penalty spot, with only the goalkeeper to beat.
The goalkeeper must remain on his line until the ball has been kicked, and all other players must be outside the penalty area behind the penalty spot.
A team game means organised physical activity with players working together towards a shared objective.
In team games, a group of individuals on the same team work together to achieve the objective of being the winners of the game.
Team members set points and scores, make decisions, communicate among themselves, manage conflicting situations, and solve problems in a supportive, trusting atmosphere in order to achieve their objectives.
Although she had achieved almost everything she had dreamed about as a young girl, Whitebooi was left with a sense of discontent after Tokyo.
The global pandemic has taken some shine off the experience of the Olympics.
During a demonstration game, someone remarked that the players seemed to be volleying the ball back and forth over the net, and perhaps volleyball would be a more descriptive name for the sport.
The game of Volleyball was invented by William G. Morgan in the year 1895 in Holyoke, Massachusetts by YMCA (USA).
Field hockey is a team game in which a team of players attempts to score goals by hitting, scooping, pushing, or flicking a ball into an opposing team's goal using curved sticks.
However, the name "field hockey" is used in countries where the word "hockey" is generally reserved for another form of hockey, such as ice hockey or street hockey.
The players should learn and practise the basic skills of dribbling, passing, tapping, and hitting.
The first T-20 international match between men's teams was played on February 17, 2005, between Australia and New Zealand.
The first T-20 international match took place on August 5, 2004, between the women's teams of England and New Zealand.
The name of the Imperial Cricket Conference was changed to International Cricket Conference (later, Council) to enable countries outside the commonwealth to become its members.
Originally named Mintonette, it was created as a gentle indoor sport for older players to be able to exert a bit of athletic effort by keeping the ball in the air.
The idea of using a net was borrowed from tennis.
Before passing, see the target, approach the ball, and look at the ball while holding the head steady.
The referee, who was six yards away, pointed both his palms downwards to signal the defenders to ease out of the tackle.
Cricket became a widely popular sport in the second half of the seventeenth century.
The Hambledon Club, which was founded in the 1750s, played a significant role in the evolution of the game.
The game of cricket, as it is played today, has its origins in the south-eastern part of England.
There are two categories of rebounds: offensive rebounds, in which the ball is recovered by the offensive side and does not change possession, and defensive rebounds, in which the defending team gains possession of the loose ball.
This plays a major role in the game, as most possessions end when a team misses a shot.
The rally continues, with each team allowed up to three consecutive touches, until either a team grounds the ball on the opponent's court and wins the rally or a team commits a fault and loses the rally.
The receiving team must not allow the ball to become stuck within their court.
As they progress, skills should become more consistent and efficient, and the players should be introduced to set play situations.
To do this, they need to learn how to keep possession by dribbling effectively and moving the ball accurately and quickly between players.
And does 41-year-old Zlatan Ibrahimovic still have one big goal in him?
This one could come down to a battle of the forwards.
Will Harry Kane and Son Heung-min blow Milan away with their quality, or will former Chelsea and Arsenal forward Olivier Giroud return to haunt Spurs again?
It can be played indoors or outdoors.
Volleyball is a fast game played by two teams of six players each.
It was superseded by the Marylebone Cricket Club (M.C.C.), with its headquarters at Lords, London.
A visa is a certificate prepared by the immigration officials of a foreign country with a stamp marked on a passport after verifying the person's credentials.
It gives the person the right to enter a country and stay for a temporary period.
As per the report of the Sargent Committee, the Tourist Traffic Committee was appointed in 1948.
Attractions, accommodations, supporting facilities, and infrastructure are the basic elements of tourism.
For the better development of tourism, these facilities should be developed in respective areas and for this public as well as the private sector should take a lead.
BACKWATERS of Kerala encompass a complex network of lagoons, lakes, & canals, that are best experienced aboard a traditional thatch-roofed rice houseboat known as 'Kettuvallam'.
On display are life on the banks, lush green rice fields, and coconut groves with an occasional temple or church as you cruise through the backwaters.
BODHGAYA (Bihar), was the place where Prince Siddhartha attained enlightenment and became Lord Buddha.
They built Dak bungalows on the side of the road for the convenience of Dak travellers.
Taking you on an enchanting and mesmerising journey through Karnataka, the Golden Chariot complements the rich culture of the state of Karnataka and is a marvel in itself.
The coach chambers of the train are steeped in history, under a sky of intricate craftsmanship that narrates timeless tales.
In the heart of Rajasthan, lie a number of small towns and villages, which define the true essence of this land.
India is a land of great variety and contrast.
Tourism has emerged as one of India's important industries.
The natural surroundings, the architectural masterpieces, the music, dance, paintings, customs, and languages all go to make India a tourist paradise.
Interaction with the tourists helps to develop hospitable conduct amongst the workers associated to tourism industry in local areas.
The distinctive architecture seen in Dutch mansions, Portuguese churches, Jewish synagogues, British storehouses and 14th-century Chinese fishing nets, reflects Kochi's long history as an important seaport and trading centre.
Kerala has been included in the top 50 tourist destinations for a once-in-a-lifetime visit by the National Geographic Channel.
The beauty of Kerala lies in its placid nature, encompassing serene backwaters, beaches, hill stations, spice plantations, flora and fauna, Ayurveda, boat races, natural harbours and more.
Munnar is carpeted by thick forests and tea estates.
Of these, some monuments also figure in the list of World Heritage Sites recognized by UNESCO.
Maharashtra has recognized tourism as a major thrust area for economic growth in the state because Sahyadri Mountain is the backbone of Maharashtra.
Meet and Greet Service at the airport is an important service for tourists as well as for the company, since it helps the tourists in fast-track clearance through arrivals or departures, helping with transfers, baggage and family travel and ensures a swift, smooth and safe passage through the airport.
On a 720 km long strip between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea, lie a host of hidden beaches and creeks.
These solitary beaches, alongside the wild and verdant Western Ghats, are a quiet alternative to their boisterous Goan counterpart.
PERIYAR, the hub of spice plantations in Kerala, is also famous for its wildlife park, which is best experienced aboard a boat cruise on Lake Periyar.
Besides, there are several other offices at the focal point of international tourist interest.
Drifting down the serene lakes in Shikaras and living in wooden houseboats are unique experiences offered by Srinagar.
Set like a jeweled crown on the map of India, Kashmir changes its hues with seasons - in winter, when snow carpets the mountains, there is skiing and sledge riding along the gentle slopes; in spring and summer, the honey-dewed orchards, rippling lakes make the valley breathtakingly beautiful.
In 2015, Foreign Exchange Earnings for India from the industry were 16.94 billion dollars.
The Bagh caves, like those at Ajanta, were excavated on a perpendicular sandstone rock face of a hill across the seasonal stream of Baghani.
The state has a separate department for tourism, set up in 1969, but the Maharashtra State Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), a government body to promote tourism was established in 1975.
India has immense possibilities for growth in the tourism sector with its vast cultural and religious heritage and varied natural attractions, but comparatively small role in the world tourism scenario.
Tourism emerged as the largest global industry of the 20th century and is projected to grow even faster in the 21st century.
Tourism is our business, but each tour is a traveler's memory.
Travel documents include passport, visa, currency certificate or endorsement of currency in the passport, travel insurance, income tax statements, health certificates, etc.
Some of these festivals are the Ellora festival, the Pune Ganesh festival, the Gharapuri festival, Paryatan Mahotsav in Murud (Raigad), and others.
Under the aegis of the corporation, a number of tourist homes, resorts, and hotels operate from several tourist sites to accommodate visitors and provide information and also arrange guided tours.
This can be positive as well as negative.
Without planning and controlling mechanisms, the development of tourism may end by having social, cultural and economic distortions, which will be reflected in the relationship between tourists and local people.
The pleats or Kallis signify the Pancha Buddha or Pancha Ratna.
In the east, one finds the Adi with many subtribes, including Padam, Pasi, Minyong, and Bokar, among others.
The European colonizers created an architecture that symbolized their mission of conquest, dedicated to the state or religion.
Bhajan, Janan, and Oriya songs based on ragas, Rangila Chaupadi, etc. are grouped under light classical music, which forms an important segment of Oriya music.
His extraordinary achievements, coupled with his own ineffable sense of destiny and the flattery of his companions, may have combined to produce this effect.
Ganga has been revered in Cambodia since the Khmer empire.
The tableau of Goa showcases religious harmony by focusing on the Deepastambha, the Cross, and Ghode Modni followed by a chariot.
He wrote the book Mizo Nge Israel? ("Mizo or Israeli?") (2004), exploring this issue.
The earliest recorded forms of these languages, Vedic Sanskrit and Gathic Avestan, are remarkably similar, descended from the common Proto-Indo-Iranian language.
In southern India, the Pallava period beginning with Simhavishnu (575 CE-900 CE) was a transitional stage in southern Indian society with monument building, the establishment of (bhakti) sects of Alvars and Nayanars, the flowering of rural Brahmanical institutions of Sanskrit learning, and the establishment of the Chakravartin model of kingship over a territory of diverse people, which ended the pre-Pallavan era of territorially segmented people, each with their culture, under a tribal chieftain.
In the 20th century Godabarish Mohapatra, Kalindi Charana Panigrahi, Kanhu Charan Mohanty (1906-1994), Godabarish Mishra, Gopinath Mohanty (1914-1991), Sachidananda Routray (1916-2004), Sitakant Mahapatra (born 17 September 1937), Surendra Mohanty, Manoj Das, Kishori Charan Das, Ramakanta Rath (born 13 December 1934), Binapani Mohanty, Jagadish Mohanty, Sarojini Sahoo, Rajendra Kishore Panda, Padmaj Pal, Ramchandra Behera, Pratibha Satpathy, Nandini Sahu, Debaraj Samantray are few names who created Odia literature.
Islamic Bengal was noted for its production of the finest cotton fabrics and saris, notably the Jamdani, which received warrants from the Mughal court.
In 797 AD (or possibly 801 AD), the Abbasid caliph of Baghdad, Harun al-Rashid, presented Charlemagne with an Asian elephant named Abul-Abbas, together with a "particularly elaborate example" of a water clock.
British women of good social standing were scarce; in 1785 surgeon John Stewart wrote to his brother from Cawnpore: "Many of the women here are mere adventuresses from Milliners shops on Ludgate Hill and some even from Covent Garden and Old Drury [well-known areas of prostitution in late 18th century London].
If death has occurred elsewhere, salvation can be achieved by immersing the ashes in the Ganges.
The articles focused on topics China regards as taboo, including the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, Chairman Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution, Hong Kong's fight for democracy, and ethnic tensions in Xinjiang and Tibet.
The British monarch's portrait was replaced by the Lion Capital of Ashoka.
Pliny the Elder adds that the planned distance was 12 kilometres (7.5 mi), and the purpose was to cut a canal through the isthmus to connect the Caystrian and Hermaean bays.
According to Arthashastra, one svarna or karsha was equal to 80 rattis (based on the 1 Masha = 5 Ratti standard).
Recent C14 datings and stylistic comparisons with Amri II-B period pottery show the first two phases should be termed Pre-Harappan Dholaviran Culture and re-dated as follows: Stage I (c. 3500 - 3200 BCE) and Stage II (c. 3200 - 2600 BCE).
Russian historian Lev Gumilev wrote that the Xiongnu, Mongols (Mongol Empire, Zunghar Khanate), and Turkic peoples (First Turkic Khaganate, Uyghur Khaganate) played a role in stopping Chinese aggression to the north.
Sandansa/Sandamsa (hell of pincers): The Bhagavata Purana and the Devi Bhagavata Purana state that a person who robs a Brahmin or steals jewels or gold from someone, when not in dire need, is confined to this hell.
Paul Hacker has also expressed some reservations that the compendium Sarva-darsana-Siddhanta Sangraha was completely authored by Shankara because of differences in style and thematic inconsistencies in parts.
According to Willem van Schendel and Henk Schulte Nordholt, the festival became a popular means of expressing cultural pride and heritage among the Bangladeshi as they resisted Pakistani rule in the 1950s and 1960s.
Ala al-Din Husayn launched a devastating raid in the Ghaznavid territory and sacked their capital, although he was defeated by the Seljuks, which briefly halted the rapid Ghurid expansion.
The earliest examples of Pallava constructions are rock-cut temples dating from 610 CE to 690 CE and structural temples between 690 CE and 900 CE.
The Salankayanas were an ancient dynasty that ruled the Andhra region between Godavari and Krishna with their capital at Vengi (modern Pedavegi) from 300 to 440 CE.
The occurrence of extramarital sex by men is described as "universal" in 6 cultures, "moderate" in 29 cultures, "occasional" in 6 cultures, and "uncommon" in 10 cultures.
Equally valuable was the ship's rutter (mariner's handbook), which contained vital information on the China, India, and Japan trade routes.
The Art Institute Dhaka has been an important center for visual art in the region.
The Brahmasutra (also called Vedanta Sutra, composed in the 1st millennium BCE) accepted this in verse 1.1.4 and asserts the need for the Upanishadic teachings to be understood not on a piecemeal, cherry-picked basis, but rather in a unified way wherein the ideas in the Vedic texts are harmonized with other means of knowledge such as perception, inference, and remaining pramanas.
It suggests that members from these professions should be sought to serve in the secret service.
A short passage near the end addresses the larger concerns of warfare and explains the various uses of war elephants and men.
The bulk of the scripture is divided into 31 main ragas, with each Granth raga subdivided according to length and author.
The text is a prose-style Upanishad, with a motley collection of different-sized paragraphs.
Nastika Indian philosophies include Buddhism, Jainism, Charvaka, Ajivika, and others.
For example, "The Trickster and the Talking Bulb" tells the story of "The Old Man", who disregards the warnings of a bulb and, in turn, gets punished for his defiance.
These coins were mostly in copper and rarely in silver, the metal dies were carefully cast with the required designs.
The individual, asserts Katha Upanishad, who contemplates this eternal and not crooked one, becomes free and never experiences grief.
The section concludes by listing the names of actions or deeds possible with various weapons, including 32 positions to be taken with sword and shield (khadgacharmavidhau); 11 techniques for using a rope in fighting, 5 acts in the rope operation, lists of deeds pertaining to the chakram (war-quoit), the spear, the tomara (iron club), the Gada (mace), the axe, the hammer, the bhindipala or laguda, the vajra, the dagger, the slingshot, and a bludgeon or cudgel.
Starting with the Western embargo on the Yugoslavian common market, and ending with the Greek embargo on North Macedonia, over the country's former name, the Republic of Macedonia.
After the sharp devaluation in 1991 and the transition to current account convertibility in 1994, the value of the rupee has been largely determined by market forces.
His family's company, Sino-Thai Engineering and Construction PCL, built several government mega-projects, such as Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi Airport.
Apple Store openings and new product releases can draw crowds of hundreds, with some waiting in line as much as a day before the opening.
Apple evangelist Guy Kawasaki has called brand fanaticism "something that was stumbled upon," while I've explained in 2014 that "people have an incredibly personal relationship" with Apple's products.
It was introduced in 1994 as a subscription service transmitted by satellite television provider DirecTV for 13 hours a day, seven days a week.
By 2019, Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (ZEEL) was the Essel Group's only profit-generating company; the group had accumulated an overall debt of around 20,000 crores (equivalent to 210 billion or US $2.6 billion in 2020).
EDS eventually shed hundreds of jobs at A.T. Kearney, reduced compensation, consolidated back-office functions, and eventually relocated A.T. Kearney's headquarters from Chicago to Plano, Texas.
The post-1980 Ratsiraka and Zafy regimes have overseen the privatization of parastatals, the disbanding of agricultural marketing boards, the ratification of more liberal investment codes favoring foreign investment, the privatization of the banking industry, the diversification of traditional, primary-product exports, and greater investment in food production.
ECBs include commercial bank loans, buyers' credit, suppliers' credit, securitised instruments such as floating rate notes and fixed rate bonds, etc., credit from official export credit agencies, and commercial borrowings from the private sector window of multilateral financial Institutions such as the International Finance Corporation (Washington), ADB, AFIC, CDC, etc.
This came a month after the SBI board had, on 17 May 2016, cleared a proposal to merge its five associate banks and Bharatiya Mahila Bank with itself.
American Express ranked 86th in the 2018 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by total revenue.
Investment in mining and natural gas extraction increased, as did investment in the banking sector.
Between 1913 and 1929, its agricultural exports rose from $3 million ($2 million from bananas) to $25 million ($21 million from bananas).
However, the economic fluctuations of the business cycle did affect Poland's unemployment rate, which by early 2013 had reached almost 11%.
In 2000, the BSE used this index to open its derivatives market, trading S&P BSE SENSEX futures contracts.
The development of S&P BSE SENSEX options along with equity derivatives followed in 2001 and 2002, expanding the BSE's trading platform.
In 1997, FAO launched TeleFood, a campaign of concerts, sporting events, and other activities to harness the power of the media, celebrities, and concerned citizens to help fight hunger.
Business services: 630,000 registered companies, equal to 10.3% of the entrepreneurial fabric, with over 2,800,000 work units.
In 2017, ANZ acquired REALas property price predictor start-up.
It brought 1,482 urban and 58 multi-state cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI.
Woolwich thus joined the Barclays group of companies, and the Woolwich name was retained after the acquisition.
In October 2012, it announced plans to lay off an additional 15% of its workforce to reduce costs in the face of declining sales revenue.
Siemens's definition was adopted as the "international" watt.
In addition, the Bajaj Group has also undertaken several educational activities.
India's GDP growth during the January-March period of 2015 was at 7.5% compared to China's 7%, making it the fastest-growing MAJOR economy.
Long-term investments are to be held for many years and are not intended to be disposed of in the near future.
On 28 December 2010, the non-governmental organisation, Coalition to Uproot Ragging from Education (CURE) co-founder Harsh Agarwal wrote a letter to the Raghavan Committee, a panel headed by former HRD Minister R. K. Raghavan, explaining distress over a particular scene, where the lead actors get ragged by seniors.
Revival efforts also included appointing Jean-Charles de Castelbajac as artistic director and re-appointing photographer Oliviero Toscani.
Notable foreign companies that have set up joint venture entities in Mexico include Samsung, which formed Samex, a local designer and manufacturer of finished televisions, white goods, and individual electronic components like printed circuit boards, LCD panels, and semiconductors; and Toshiba, which formed Toshiba de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., an administratively autonomous subsidiary that produces electronics parts, televisions, and heavy industrial equipment.
In 2014, the government increased the foreign investment upper limit from 26% to 49% in the insurance sector.
The scheduled banks are those included under the 2nd Schedule of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
It features a 60.6-inch (154 cm)-wide two-seater reclining sofa and 32-inch (81 cm) TV monitor in the lounge; an ensuite bathroom with shower; an 82-inch (210 cm)-long, 47.5-inch (121 cm)-wide double bed in the bedroom, which also includes a 27-inch (69 cm) TV monitor, and a personal butler.
The former is a consumer economy designed to engender productivity, while the latter is a shortage economy designed as an agent of totalitarian social control.
Before 2013, Indian companies were not allowed to list their securities internationally without first completing an IPO in India.
The high level of brand loyalty has been criticised and ridiculed, with the epithet "Apple fanboy" being applied and mocking the lengthy lines before a product launch.
The opening of New York City's Apple Fifth Avenue store in 2006 was highly attended, and visitors from Europe flew in for the event.
The savings for investment were to come from domestic and foreign sources, with the rate of domestic saving at 21.6% of gross domestic product and that of foreign saving at 1.6% of gross domestic product.
Details of managing DuPont's chief information officer Cinda Hallman's $4 billion 10-year outsourcing contract with Computer Sciences Corporation and Accenture were outsourced, thus avoiding "inventing a process if we'd done it in-house."
The Robert B. Atwood Building in Anchorage, Alaska, was at one time named the Bank of America Center, renamed in conjunction with the bank's acquisition of building tenant Security Pacific Bank.
BCI differs from neuromodulation in that it allows for bidirectional information flow.
However, such periodic sequences are repelling rather than attracting, meaning that if the evolving variable is outside the sequence, however close, it will not enter the sequence and, in fact, will diverge from it.
A leap second is a one-second adjustment that is occasionally applied to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), to accommodate the difference between precise time (International Atomic Time (TAI), as measured by atomic clocks) and imprecise observed solar time (UT1), which varies due to irregularities and a long-term slowdown in the Earth's rotation.
A study on teachers by Kremer et al. found that 25% of private-sector teachers and 40% of public-sector medical workers were absent during the survey.
The Compton effect of 1923 provided more evidence that special relativity does apply, in this case to a particle description of photon-electron scattering.
An electromagnetic field very far from currents and charges (sources) is called electromagnetic radiation (EMR) since it radiates from the charges and currents in the source, has no "feedback" effect on them, and is also not affected directly by them in the present time (rather, it is indirectly produced by a sequence of changes in fields radiating out from them in the past).
As noted above, most DNA molecules are two polymer strands bound together in a helical fashion by noncovalent bonds; this double-stranded structure is maintained largely by the intrastrand base stacking interactions, which are strongest for G and C stacks.
He first investigated the rate of decrease in mean temperature with the increase in elevation above sea level, which afforded, by his inquiries regarding the origin of tropical storms, the earliest clue to the detection of the more complicated law governing atmospheric disturbances in higher latitudes.
Carbon clusters were first detected by Eric A. Rohlfing, Donald M. Cox, and Andrew Kaldor in 1984, in experiments where graphite was vaporised by a laser and the vapour was quenched by a helium atmosphere.
Determining the complexity of an algorithm means finding upper bounds or estimates of how many elementary operations, such as additions and multiplications of scalars, are necessary to perform some algorithm, for example, the multiplication of matrices.
During this time, the British came into conflict with Bengal's Mughal governors.
In the first long-distance audio transmissions by Reginald Fessenden in 1906, a continuous wave from an Alexanderson alternator was fed directly to the transmitting antenna through a water-cooled carbon microphone.
Technology has helped teachers create better assessments to help understand where students who are having trouble with the material are having issues.
Autocrine is a cell sending a signal to itself by secreting a molecule that binds to a receptor on its surface.
Following the rebellions in the Poonch and Mirpur areas and the Pakistan-backed Pashtun tribal intervention from the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the Maharaja asked for Indian military assistance.
Or have you made a considered decision that the template is not, or is no longer, applicable?
If a wheat crop is destroyed by a pest, we may plant a hardier variety of wheat next year, relying on intraspecific diversity.
The field began to flourish in 1971 when Stephen Cook and Leonid Levin proved the existence of practically relevant problems that were NP-complete.
In the early medieval Alpine upland, a simpler central heating system where heat traveled through underfloor channels from the furnace room replaced the Roman hypocaust in some places.
They are mainly used in high-end audio power amplifiers and RF power amplifiers in wireless cellular networks such as 2G, 3G, and 4G.
Mains filter capacitors are usually encapsulated in wound plastic film types since these deliver high voltage ratings at a low cost and may be made self-healing and fusible.
Multi-agent reinforcement learning studies the problems introduced in this setting.
It offers DEPM, B.TECH (Electronics Engineering), M.Tech (Electronics Design Technology), Ph.D., and short-term courses.
For example, what John Polkinghorne terms 'conceptual' or 'epistemological' reductionism is the definition provided by Simon Blackburn and by Jaegwon Kim: that form of reductionism which concerns a program of replacing the facts or entities involved in one type of discourse with other facts or entities from another type, thereby providing a relationship between them.
Bangladesh has a literacy rate of 74.7% as of 2019: 77.4% for males and 71.9% for females.
The Indian numbering system corresponds to the Western system for the zeroth through the fourth powers of ten: one, ten, one hundred, one thousand, and ten thousand.
The SI-derived unit for measuring the catalytic activity of a catalyst is the katal, which is quantified in moles per second.
The endonym (Rumana, "the land of the Romans," i.e., the Eastern Roman Empire) was understood as another name for the province by the invading Seljuk Turks, who founded a Sultanate of Rum in 1077.
However, the Virgo interferometer in Italy was not operating at the time, and the GEO600 was in engineering mode and is not sensitive enough, so it could not confirm the signal.
These refugees arrived in waves and did not come solely at the time of partition.
This library can be selected against the desired target sequence, which is inserted in the promoter region of the reporter gene construct.
In solutions at room temperature, the four cyclic isomers interconvert over a time scale of hours in a process called mutarotation.
The sense coil is a differential current transformer that surrounds (but is not electrically connected to) the live and neutral conductors.
In the spongy mesophyll of a leaf, parenchyma cells range from near-spherical and loosely arranged with large intercellular spaces to branched or stellate, mutually interconnected with their neighbors at the ends of their arms to form a three-dimensional network, like in the red kidney bean Phaseolus vulgaris and other mesophytes.
Although Thomas precession (net rotation after a trajectory that returns to its initial velocity) is a purely kinematic effect, it only occurs in curvilinear motion and therefore cannot be observed independently of some external force causing the curvilinear motion, such as that caused by an electromagnetic field, a gravitational field, or a mechanical force, so Thomas precession is usually accompanied by dynamical effects.
Unlike a traditional incandescent lamp, an LED will only light when voltage is applied in the forward direction of the diode.
Two prints, each carrying either the right or left eye view, had to be synced up in projection using an external selsyn motor.
When machine learning techniques are initially used in new applications or industries, there is often not enough training data available to apply traditional processes.
Once trained, such a model can detect synonymous words or suggest additional words for a partial sentence.
It is published by Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc.; the company has existed since the 18th century, although it has changed ownership various times through the centuries.
10 years after the film's release, Arbaaz Khan stated in an interview that the film's budget was hiked from 30 crore (equivalent to 57 crore or US$7.2 million in 2020) to 49 crore (equivalent to 93 crore or US$12 million in 2020), leading to few losses for him, but after the monumental success, he paid the salary for Salman Khan.
A battle-hardened and rebellious Indian Army officer goes in search of his ex-girlfriend's child, who is mysteriously kidnapped.
About a thousand and thirty Gujarati films were made between 1932 and 2011, but very few are archived.
Amiya Chakravarty (30 November 1912-6 March 1957) was an Indian film director, screenwriter, and producer, and the leading film director in Hindi cinema of the 1940s and 1950s.
Other actors he has frequently collaborated with include Rekha, Madhuri Dixit, Anil Kapoor, Shah Rukh Khan, and Amrish Puri.
The waterfall, the mystical forests and water bodies above the cliffs and the lead pair escaping an avalanche all add to the spectacle.
Pandurang, an assassin previously sent by Babli as an undercover servant, later joins Gopal's side on hearing about Sameer's truth and fights the gangsters off, with the fight finally ending with Gopal being accidentally stabbed by Babli in his butt with a knife and falling unconscious soon after, but not before warning Madhav, Lucky, and Laxman not to touch the knife, leaving the three friends in laughter.
On their wedding day, however, Vaidehi does not show up and is revealed to have run away to Mumbai.
Bantu begins to address the issues plaguing the house by patching up Ramachandra's broken relationship with Yasu (which was fragile because Ramachandra had an affair with a woman 7 years ago), settling the dispute with Paidathalli, and reforming the corrupt family members, Kashiram and Sitaram.
Because a single channel was catering to an ever-growing audience, television programming quickly reached saturation.
Beta (Translation: Son) is a 1992 Indian Hindi drama film, directed by Indra Kumar and written by Naushir Khatau and Kamlesh Pandey.
This is more efficient than broadcasting to a single country because domestic entertainment programs and information gathered by domestic news staff can be cheaply repackaged for non-domestic audiences.
Dhinendra, who becomes angered by Chitti's victory, releases Pakshi's spirit from the synthesizer.
Not just visually, where we see the Superstar with one human eye and one scarred metallic eye, but also intentionally spelled out when the bad robot announces that he has created "Terminators."
Following its success, the film was screened in the East Asian markets; it was released in Taiwan on December 17, 2010, followed by Hong Kong on September 1, 2011.
The song received 230 points with 10 sets of 12 points from Belgium, Bulgaria, Hungary, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Albania, Cyprus, Serbia & Montenegro, Sweden, and Germany and also became a smash hit in different countries, especially in Greece.
He is best known for directing the critically acclaimed films Gharaonda (1977), starring Amol Palekar and Zarina Wahab, and Dooriyaan (1979), starring Sharmila Tagore and Uttam Kumar.
In 1951, "The Lady with a Lamp" starred Anna Neagle.
To make a full-length silent film, a temporary studio was made in the gardens of the family's estate, and they produced a full-length silent film titled The Last Kiss, released in 1931.
It was adapted by Terrence McNally from his own off-Broadway play Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune (1987), which featured Kenneth Welsh and Kathy Bates.
In 2011, Kashyap directed That Girl in Yellow Boots, a thriller starring Kalki Koechlin who also co-wrote the film with him.
She had to learn Greek for the film and also dubbed herself.
The film premiered at the 2016 Sydney Film Festival and the 2016 Cannes Film Festival, in the Director's Fortnight section to a positive response.
In addition, 3 Idiots won the Grand Prize at the 4th Videoyasan Awards, held by a Japanese organisation of home video retailers in 2014; 3 Idiots was selected as 2013's best video release, beating thousands of films, anime, and television shows, including domestic and foreign Hollywood productions.
Although it is inferred as a Filmfare Award, he said in an interview that "I did not write a Filmfare Award."
In the Jordan Peele film Us, Addy, a little girl in 1986, walks up to and into the Shaman's Vision Quest attraction, the entrance to which is topped by a Native American man with a headdress on and his right hand pointing at potential questers.
Modern film releases are dubbed into many languages, forming a pan-Indian film movement.
Aamir Khan, who had never before made a remake film in his career, was initially hesitant to do the film but was convinced by Suriya, the original star of the Tamil Ghajini, who told him he was "the only one who could do justice to the character."
In 2000, he recorded Rescue with drummer Dennis Chambers (Carlos Santana, John McLaughlin, et al.), and in 2006, he released Chateau Benares with guests DJ Logic and Keller Williams (guitar and bass).
Many comedy and drama programmes from the Radio 4 archives are broadcast on BBC Radio 4 Extra.
National Film Awards are also given to the best films in the regional languages of India.
Neha's in-laws think Nikita has died, and Nikita realizes that a way out of her problems is to impersonate Neha.
The lyrics for the two songs were penned by Sahithi, and the remaining songs were written by Ramajogayya Sastry, Chandrabose, Devi Sri Prasad, and Bhaskarabhatla.
Shubhra Gupta of The Indian Express gave the film 2.5 out of 5, complimenting the lead performers who "play well together" but are forced to "boost a limp story."
Like the 51st edition, this edition was also held in a hybrid format that combined online and face-to-face participation.
Soma Kerala Palace, Kochi, was shown in the movie as the KARMA Institute (school of Guruswamy).
The vocals were performed by: Nikhil D'Souza, Monali Thakur, Lucky Ali, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, Shekhar Ravjiani, Caralisa Monteiro, Mohit Chauhan, Shruti Pathak, Vishal Dadlani, Shilpa Rao and Abhijit Vaghani.
Yasu then asks Valmiki to train Raj for five years to be as competent as Bantu and become the CEO.
When they follow each other in their cars, Raj saves Meera from dying and tells them to never see him again.
Anupama Chopra from Hindustan Times gave 4.5 stars out of 5, terming it "soaring, searing and visually sumptuous", and wrote "Bajirao Mastani plays out like an operatic, swooning, feverish love poem."
About 44 million metric tonnes of cargo are moved annually through the country's major rivers and waterways.
According to a 2010 report, only about 2.1% (or 1,350,000 ha) of Afghanistan is forested.
All continental crust is ultimately derived from mantle-derived melts (mainly basalt) through fractional differentiation of basaltic melt and the assimilation (remelting) of pre-existing continental crust.
Although Japan is usually self-sufficient in rice (except for its use in making rice crackers and processed foods) and wheat, the country must import about 50% of its requirements of other grain and fodder crops and relies on imports for half of its supply of meat.
American geologist Grove Karl Gilbert first argued in 1885 that the barrier sediments came from longshore sources.
Asansol has hot and dry summers and mild winters.
Two small rivulets, Nunia and Gauri, flow past Asansol.
When the epicenter of a large earthquake is located offshore, the seabed may be displaced sufficiently to cause a tsunami.
Snow and sleet are common during the winter in upper Dharamshala (including McLeodganj, Bhagsu Nag, and Naddi).
Citrus fruit is mainly grown in the central parts of Jamaica, particularly between the elevations of 1,000-2,500 feet.
Dehradun city receives potable water from two primary sources: surface water and groundwater, to meet its supply needs.
Different kinds of fruits such as mango, sapota, orange, banana, papaya, pineapple, and root crops are grown on hilly land owned by farmers.
Fresh fish are exported to France and dried and preserved fish to Spain and Italy.
Its reefs are generally of little breadth, with no signs of vilu except for its eastern fringes, which are covered with islands that are quite large by Maldivian standards.
Cellulose fibre alternatives have similar characteristics but are not perfect substitutes for cotton textiles, with differences in properties like tensile strength and thermal regulation.
High water and pesticide use in cotton cultivation has prompted sustainability concerns and created a market for natural fiber alternatives.
In warm, clear tropical waters, corals are more abundant than toward the poles, where the waters are cold.
India has 7,516 kilometres (4,670 mi) of marine coastline, 3,827 fishing villages, and 1,914 traditional fish landing centers.
Some cash crops suited for Manipur include Lychee, Cashew, Walnut, Orange, Lemon, Pineapple, Papaya, Passion Fruit, Peach, Pear, and Plum.
The shift in exhibit arrangements is changing the scope of work for animal keepers as they become habitat keepers, with a necessary working knowledge of living environment care, including landscape maintenance, plant care, climate control, and expanded knowledge of animal husbandry for many more species across taxonomic classes.
Notable mammals that became or are presumed to have become extinct within the country itself include the Indian or Asiatic cheetah, Javan rhinoceros, and Sumatran rhinoceros.
Goa's state animal is the Gaur, the state bird is the Flame-throated Bulbul, and the state tree is the Indian Laurel.
Rice is the main food crop, and pulses (legumes), ragi (finger millet), and other food crops are also grown.
Summer is exceedingly hot; temperatures in low-lying areas may exceed 50° C (122° F) during May, leading to heat waves that can each kill hundreds of Indians.
Temperate deciduous forest biomes are plant communities distributed in North and South America, Asia, the southern slopes of the Himalayas, Europe, and for cultivation purposes in Oceania.
These seasonally distinctive communities have diverse life forms that are greatly impacted by the seasonality of their climate, mainly temperature and precipitation rates.
Major seaports include Kandla Port, Mundra Port, Pipavav Port, Dahej Port, Hazira Port, Mumbai Port, Nhava Sheva Port (Navi Mumbai), Mormugo Port (Goa), New Mangalore Port, and Kochi Port in India; the Port of Karachi, Port Qasim, and the Gwadar Port in Pakistan; Chabahar Port in Iran; and the Port of Salalah in Salalah, Oman.
The Gondwana and Vindhyan include within their folds parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttarakhand.
Tomography shows two layers in the craton roots beneath North America.
The average precipitation per month varies between 54mm (2.1 inches) for February and April and 78mm (3.1 inches) for July.
The scarcity of land and water, the underdeveloped farming practices, and the absence of support services in atolls have meant low production and, thus, low incomes in these regions.
The important forest products are bamboo canes, Maratha barks, chillar barks, and the bhirand.
Other important crops are rice, cotton, sugarcane, pearl millet, finger millet, sorghum, maize, barley, and fruits.
37 species of reptiles and amphibians are also reported.
The De Lesseps Company, which ran the Suez Canal, first attempted to build a Panama Canal in the 1880s.
Three waterways cross the municipality: the Weespertrekvaart from west to south, the Amsterdam-Rhine Canal from north to east, and the river Diem from south to north.
Two types of agricultural management practices include organic agriculture and conventional agriculture.
Chemical reactions of sulphate aerosols in the stratosphere can also damage the ozone layer, and acids such as hydrogen chloride (HCl) and hydrogen fluoride (HF) can fall to the ground as acid rain.
With the tropical monsoon climate, Assam is temperate (summer max. at 95° - 100° F or 35° - 38° C and winter min. at 43° - 46° F or 6° - 8° C) and experiences heavy rainfall and high humidity.
The region's high rainfall, averaging around 10,000 millimetres (390 inches) and above, creates problems for the ecosystem including high seismic activity and floods.
As of 2021, India has 28 states, each with its own government elected separately from the national government (also called the union or federal government), and 8 union territories, which are administered by the union government.
On this occasion, the Indiamen succeeded in bluffing their way to safety without any shots even being fired.
The IR is further subdivided into sixty-seven divisions, each with a divisional headquarters.
Fleeing before the advancing Red Army, large numbers of the inhabitants of the German provinces of East Prussia, Silesia, and Pomerania died during the evacuations, some from cold and starvation, some during combat operations.
Vote transfers from the victorious candidate to a candidate who has been eliminated are impossible, and reference must be made to the next marked preference if any.
The ICC consisted of three British and three Indians, led by T. Rangachari, a Madras lawyer.
In 2020, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced a bill to amend the Act.
In December 2012, a tiger was shot by the Kerala Forest Department on a coffee plantation on the fringes of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary.
The Chief Wildlife Warden of Kerala ordered the hunt for the animal after mass protests erupted as the tiger had been carrying livestock.
Shah insisted the bill was not anti-Muslim because it did not change their existing path to citizenship.
In January 1992, the Union government sanctioned the induction of women into non-combatant branches of the Army while holding short-service commissions.
In January 2012, Obama issued a Call to Action to Invest in America at the White House "Insourcing American Jobs" Forum.
Here 35 British soldiers of Her Majesty's 24th Regiment of Foot (South Wales Borderers) were killed by mutineers on 7 July 1857.
The Government of Andhra Pradesh honoured Kumar with the NTR National Award in 1997.
The government owns 90% of all mines and related industries and is seeking foreign investment.
Like the NASA-funded Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), managed by the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), ISRO and the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) implemented a joint working framework in 2021 in which an empowered overseeing committee (EOC) under the Capacity Building Programme Office (CBPO) of ISRO located in Bengaluru will approve all short, medium, and long-term space research projects of common interest.
Most Indian states had granted general consent to the CBI to investigate crimes within their territories.
Similarly, when liquidity is tight, RBI will buy government securities and thereby inject money supply into the economy.
Ratan Tirkey, a former BJP politician and activist, said that Murmu had not done enough to make sure that the self-governance rights granted to tribal communities were properly implemented.
In 2021, Bangladesh provided a US$200 million loan to Sri Lanka and a US$7.7 million donation to Sudan as economic assistance.
Some navies operate ocean-going hospital ships to lend medical assistance in high-casualty situations like wars or natural disasters.
Under the agreement, member states enter into successive rounds of negotiations to liberalise trade in services with the aim of submitting increasingly higher levels of commitment.
It envisions an "ASEAN Community that is people-centered and socially responsible with a view to achieving enduring solidarity and unity among the countries and peoples of ASEAN by forging a common identity and building a caring and sharing society that is inclusive and harmonious where the well-being, livelihood, and welfare of the peoples are enhanced."
The Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI) is a proposed regulatory body in India for the use of biotechnology products including genetically modified organisms (GMOs).
In the 1967 state assembly elections, all socialist parties were eliminated, and the CPI lost opposition party status.
This action has been called problematic in many ways, including causing centralisation of power, being anti-federal in nature, and having an effect on local-level development and MP influence at micro levels of the society to handle distress.
His father, Adwait Prasad Singh, had won this seat in 2000 as a BJD candidate, in 1990 as a JD candidate, and in 1977 as a JNP candidate.
The current MLA from Angul (Odisha Vidhan Sabha constituency) is Rajanikant Singh of the BJD, who was elected in the 2019 Odisha Legislative Assembly election and subsequently elected unopposed as the deputy speaker of the assembly.
The reputed entities like NSDL e-Governance Infrastructure Limited (formerly National Securities Depository Limited) and UTI Infrastructure Technology Services Limited (UTIITSL) have been entrusted by Income Tax Department as managed service providers for the processing of applications, collecting, handling and verifying personal documents like proof of ID, age and address, clarification with the applicants, printing the card and the letter and then mailing it.
At the centre of the building is the circular Central Chamber, and surrounding this Chamber are three semicircular halls that were constructed for the sessions of the Chamber of Princes (now used as the Library Hall), the State Council (now used for the Rajya Sabha), and the Central Legislative Assembly (now used for the Lok Sabha).
Revolutionaries such as Bagha Jatin, Khudiram Bose, Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekar Azad, Surya Sen, and Subhas Chandra Bose differed from Gandhi in their use of violence during their campaigns against British rule.
There also exists a unicameral Cocos (Keeling) Islands Shire Council with seven seats.
By 5 May, India had received 5,769,442 items in aid.
The Cabinet was misinformed in November 2005 that several service providers were interested in using satellite capacity, while the Devas deal was already signed.
In 2017, Russian President Vladimir Putin acknowledged the "horrors of Stalinism," but he also criticised the "excessive demonization of Stalin" by "Russia's enemies."
The Confederacy purchased several warships from commercial shipbuilders in Britain (CSS Alabama, CSS Shenandoah, CSS Tennessee, CSS Tallahassee, CSS Florida, and some others).
Under the new approach, communities are being consulted and trained, and users agree up front to pay a tariff that is set at a level sufficiently high to cover operation and maintenance costs.
Vere Bird was prime minister from 1981 to 1994 and chief minister of Antigua from 1960 to 1981, except for the 1971-1976 period when the Progressive Labour Movement (PLM) defeated his party.
But the new government failed to establish its legitimacy, and as much of its financial support dissipated, local and middle-range commanders and their militias not only fought among themselves but also resorted to a host of unacceptable practises in their protracted scrambles for power and profit.
All State Administrative Services officers in India are state civil servants posted as Assistant Collectors or Subdistrict Magistrate in various subdistricts of India, Ward Officer in various municipal corporations, Notified Area Councils, Municipal Councils, District Parishads, Block Parishads, and Village Panchayats, and Under Secretary in various state secretariats.
A 2018 review showed that a Mediterranean-like diet may improve overall health status, such as reduced risk of non-communicable diseases.
A blood test is generally performed for cardiac troponins twelve hours after the onset of the pain.
It can refer to any process that originates within an organism (i.e., endogenous) and responds to the environment (entrained by the environment).
According to David E. Nichols, "Discussions over the years with many colleagues working in the pharmaceutical industry have informed me that if upon screening a potential new drug is found to have serotonin 5-HT2A agonist activity, it nearly always signals the end to any further development of that molecule."
Blood testing for specific IgE can be useful to confirm milk, egg, peanut, tree nut, and fish allergies.
A 2003 Battelle Environmental Evaluation System (BEES) evaluation of Bangalore's physical, biological and socioeconomic parameters indicated that Bangalore's water quality and terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems were close to ideal, while the city's socioeconomic parameters (traffic, quality of life) air quality and noise pollution were poor.
Because the pudendal nerve carries motor and sensory fibers that innervate the pelvic muscles, a pudendal nerve block relieves birth pain.
It is absorbed in the skin epidermis, where it stimulates nerve endings sensitive to heat and cold, producing a warm sensation when vigorously applied or a cool sensation when applied gently, indicating its properties as a counterirritant.
Cholera reached the southern tips of the Ural Mountains in 1829.
Collagen as haemostat: When collagen interacts with platelets, it causes rapid coagulation of blood.
All currently used anthrax vaccines show considerable local and general reactogenicity (erythema, induration, soreness, and fever), and serious adverse reactions occur in about 1% of recipients.
Depending on the diagnosis, severity, and individual, as well as the job itself, personality disorders can be associated with difficulty coping with work or the workplace, potentially leading to problems with others by interfering with interpersonal relationships.
Exhaled respiratory particles can build up within enclosed spaces with inadequate ventilation.
A generic version of Tamiflu (Oseltamivir) was made available in the Indian market after several months of swine flu attacks.
A ratio of 80–85% beneficial bacteria to 15–20% potentially harmful bacteria is generally considered normal within the intestines and maintains homeostasis.
When the British finally usurped the area on 13 July 1829, it was almost deserted; efforts at that time to populate the place by inducting cultivators with an incentive of Rs 1260 to develop the lands also failed.
Mental health professionals such as psychiatrists acquire their qualifications by completing an MD in Psychiatry, a Diploma in Psychiatric Medicine (DPM), or Diplomate of National Board (DNB) in Psychiatry; following an MBBS from a Medical Council of India center.
In Canada, after 6.6 million doses of vaccine had been distributed between 21 October and 7 November, there were reports of mild adverse events in 598 people vaccinated including nausea, dizziness, headache, fever, vomiting, and swelling or soreness at the injection site.
Given that pathogens are attenuated, it is extremely rare for them to revert to their pathogenic form and subsequently cause disease.
Live-attenuated vaccines are safe and stimulate a strong and effective immune response that is long-lasting.
One is undernutrition, which includes stunting (low height for age), wasting (low weight for height), underweight (low weight for age) and micronutrient deficiencies or insufficiencies (a lack of important vitamins and minerals).
However, those who have meditated for two or three years were found to already have low blood pressure.
NCDs include many environmental diseases covering a broad category of avoidable and unavoidable human health conditions caused by external factors, such as sunlight, nutrition, pollution, and lifestyle choices.
Sulfites may cause reactions by both immunologic and non-immunologic mechanisms.
On April 2, 2020, Dagens Eko reported that COVID-19 had spread significantly in retirement homes in at least 90 municipalities.
Once a virus genome becomes operational in a host cell, it then generates messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules that direct the synthesis of viral proteins.
For these reasons, virginity cannot be definitively determined by examining the hymen.
They argue that the theory and diagnosis of personality disorders are based strictly on social or even sociopolitical and economic considerations.
Some studies have also shown a relationship between increasing body dissatisfaction and increasing SES.
These vaccines either contained inactivated (killed) influenza virus or weakened live virus that could not cause influenza.
In early April 2020, Director Dr. John Nkengasong condemned remarks by two French scientists, Professors Jean-Paul Mira and Camille Locht suggesting that a potential tuberculosis vaccine for the coronavirus be tested in Africa as "disgusting and racist".
Besides its Executive Office and a Science and Programme Office, the agency also has several divisions dealing with "policy, health diplomacy, and communication," "management and administration," "surveillance and disease intelligence," "laboratory systems and networks," "emergency preparedness and response," and " public health institutes and research."
The Africa CDC is based at the Africa CDC Coordinating Centre in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, which also contains the agency's Emergency Operations Centre.
The NCD Alliance brings together roughly 900 national member associations to fight non-communicable diseases.
The GI tract contains all the major organs of the digestive system in humans and other animals, including the esophagus, stomach, and intestines.
The gastrointestinal tract (GI tract, digestive tract, alimentary canal) is the tract or passageway of the digestive system that leads from the mouth to the anus.
For example, the low pH (ranging from 1 to 4) of the stomach is fatal for many microorganisms that enter it.
Evidence-based psychotherapies for personality disorders include cognitive behavioural therapy and dialectical behaviour therapy, especially for borderline personality disorder.
The ECDC and WHO's European regional office issued guidelines for hospitals and primary healthcare services for shifting resources at multiple levels, including focusing laboratory services towards testing, canceling elective procedures, separating and isolating patients, and increasing intensive care capabilities by training personnel and increasing ventilators and beds.
Physical health outcomes include Injury (from lacerations to fractures and internal organs injury), Unwanted Pregnancy, Gynaecological problems, STDs including HIV, Miscarriage, Pelvic inflammatory disease, Chronic pelvic pain, Headaches, Permanent disabilities, Asthma, Irritable bowel syndrome, Self-injurious behaviours (smoking, unprotected sex); Mental health effects can include depression, fear, anxiety, low self-esteem, sexual dysfunction, eating disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or post-traumatic stress disorder.
In the ensuing years, other classes of the antihypertensive drug were developed and found wide acceptance in combination therapy, including loop diuretics (Lasix/furosemide, Hoechst Pharmaceuticals, 1963), beta-blockers (ICI Pharmaceuticals, 1964) ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers.
Paddy, the main food crop, is mostly cultivated in the Andaman group of islands, whereas coconut and areca nuts are the cash crops of the Nicobar group of islands.
ATI entered the mobile computing sector by introducing 3D-graphics acceleration to laptops in 1996.
Before coal mining, Jharia had forests inhabited by tribes.
An international cargo hub project, the Multi-modal International Cargo Hub and Airport at Nagpur, (MIHAN), has been developed.
Ashok Leyland Defence Systems Ltd. (ALDS) also leverages Ashok Leyland's in-house R&D base, its collaboration with global technology leaders, and Ashok Leyland's state-of-the-art plants in India.
Plessey Semiconductors Ltd demonstrated a monolithic monochrome blue GaN-on-silicon wafer bonded to a Jasper Display CMOS backplane 0.7-inch (18mm) active-matrix microLED display with an 8m pixel pitch.
The unplanned nature of growth in the city resulted in massive traffic gridlocks; a flyover system and one-way traffic systems were introduced, which were only moderately successful.
English language skills are the cornerstone of Nearshore and IT services.
CMDS is an airborne defensive system providing self-protection to the aircraft by passive ECM against radar-guided & IR seeking, air & ground-launched missiles.
In 2013, Egypt was the largest consumer of oil and natural gas in Africa, with more than 20% of total oil consumption and more than 40% of total dry natural gas consumption in Africa.
Following a merger process, the merger of the 5 remaining associate banks (viz., State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur, State Bank of Hyderabad, State Bank of Mysore, State Bank of Patiala, and State Bank of Travancore) and the Bharatiya Mahila Bank with the SBI was given in principle approval by the Union Cabinet on 15 June 2016.
GAIL is also an equity partner in two retail gas companies in Egypt, namely Fayum Gas Company (FGC) and National Gas Company (Natgas).
In 1824, Hamilton was introduced at Edgeworthstown to the novelist Maria Edgeworth by the Rev. Richard Butler, the vicar of Trim, County Meath, to whom his uncle James Hamilton was curate.
Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals was set up by P.C. Ray, a professor of chemistry at Calcutta University.
Indian Airlines focussed on domestic routes and Air India International on international services.
In other cases, the helicopter has been used solely for sensing and rocket-delivered torpedoes have been used as the weapon.
In the 1980s, the Spanish firm Esperanza y Cia developed a 120-mm mortar bomb that contained 21 anti-armour submunitions.
According to some estimates, India has 10,600 MW of geothermal energy available.
Inward remittances from outside India, legitimate dues in India, and transfers from other NRO accounts are permissible credits to the NRO account.
To facilitate exports, a container freight station was started at MIDC Ambad by the Central Government.
On 8 August 1984 a patent, US4575330, assigned to UVP, Inc. and later assigned to Chuck Hull of 3D Systems Corporation, was filed for a stereolithography fabrication system, in which individual laminae or layers are added by curing photopolymers with impinging radiation, particle bombardment, chemical reaction, or just ultraviolet light lasers.
Other major industries include the manufacturing of scientific instruments, agricultural goods, electrical goods, machine tools, textiles, sewing machines, sports goods, starch, fertilizers, bicycles, garments, and the processing of pine oil and sugar.
The typical measurement when referring to power consumption in computer architecture is MIPS/W (millions of instructions per second per watt).
Employees' State Insurance Corporation Medical College, Hyderabad, helped RCI in prototype development, while the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research helped in the testing, validation, and acceptance of products for medical use.
In some cases, weapons first introduced in science fiction have now been made a reality.
India's leading steel producer, SAIL, has a steel plant in Salem, Tamil Nadu.
In 1997 Sanyo followed with the "POSCAP" polymer tantalum chips.
The cockpit of an aircraft is a typical location for avionic equipment, including control, monitoring, communication, navigation, weather, and anti-collision systems.
There were four main proposals, and the final mix of uses will be finalised as the development progresses.
The Indian money market is classified into the organised sector, comprising private, public, and foreign-owned commercial banks and cooperative banks, together known as "scheduled banks," and the unorganised sector, which includes individual or family-owned indigenous bankers or money lenders and non-banking financial companies.
The Northern grid was also interconnected in August 2006, forming a Central Grid that was synchronously connected and operating at one frequency.
The first interconnection of regional grids was established in October 1991, when the North Eastern and Eastern grids were interconnected.
The affordable retail electricity price to replace diesel would be up to 19 Rs/Kwh (860 Kcal/Kwh at 75% input electricity to shaft power efficiency versus diesel's net calorific value of 8572 Kcal/liter at 40% fuel energy to crankshaft power efficiency), and the comparable number to replace petrol would be up to 28 Rs/Kwh (860 Kcal/Kwh at 75% input electricity to shaft power efficiency versus petrol's net calorific value of 7693 Kcal/litre at 33% fuel energy to crankshaft power efficiency).
There are hundreds of handsets in the market, and they differ by screen size and supported technologies (e.g. MMS, WAP 2.0).
A public-private partnership (PPP) approach is best suited for finding the resources.
"From that moment," the 1945 report stated, "the ordinary trade machinery could not be relied upon to feed Calcutta."
In 1591, the first Cambridge Bible was printed by John Legate, and in 1629, the Cambridge folio edition of the King James Bible was printed by Thomas and John Buck.
The levelised tariff of wind power reached a record low of ₹2.43 ($0.03 US) per kWh (without any direct or indirect subsidies) during auctions for wind projects in December 2017.
Between 1972 and 1975, cupro-nickel replaced nickel in the 25 paise, 50 paise and the 1 rupee coins; in 1982, cupro-nickel two rupee coins were introduced.
Dembowski wrote about it in his book, "Taking the State to the Supreme Court: Public Interest Litigation and the Public Sphere in Metropolitan India," which was originally published by Oxford University Press in 2001.
A protected person may not have anything done "of such a character as to cause physical suffering or extermination."
Article 28 states that even when a village is captured through war, pillaging is not allowed by any party.
Article 8 of the Convention stresses parties' commitment to raising awareness to foster respect for rights and dignity to counter disability discrimination.
Parliament has the exclusive power to make laws on matters falling under the Federal List (such as citizenship, defence, internal security, civil and criminal law, finance, trade, commerce and industry, education, labour, and tourism), whereas each State, through its Legislative Assembly, has legislative power over matters falling under the State List (such as land, local government, Syariah law and Syariah courts, State holidays and State public works).
Beek and Echt-Susteren will have an emergency decree until the 10th of February, which will allow the police to do stop-and-frisk without reason.
However, enrollment in any State Bar Council does not restrict the Barrister from appearing before any court in India, even though it is beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the State Bar Council in which they are enrolled.
These laws sharply circumscribed any non-governmental political activity: street demonstrations, non-approved political organizations, and unregistered financial donations were formally banned.
Adultery is frequently viewed as a breach of trust and of the commitment made during the act of marriage.
Have you carefully read the help pages and thoroughly fixed the problem?
The international controversy over the use and impact of cluster munitions during the war between Lebanon and Israel in July and August 2006 added weight to the global campaign for a ban treaty.
In Taiwan, polls and research have consistently shown strong support for the death penalty at 80%.
In addition, former chief prosecutor of the Nuremberg Trials Benjamin Ferencz has called the invasion of Iraq a "clear breach of law," and as such it constitutes a crime against peace.
In September 2012, they were convicted of contempt of court.
In 2008, a Delhi court ordered a 19-year-old caught making lewd remarks to passing females to distribute 500 handbills to youngsters outside schools and colleges detailing the consequences of indecent conduct.
On 11 March 2015, a Special CBI judge took cognizance of the offense under Sections 120-B and 409 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 13(1)(c), 13(1)(d)(iii) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against Dr Manmohan Singh and five other accused namely M/s. HINDALCO, Subendhu Amitabh, D. Bhattacharya, Kumar Mangalam Birla, and P.C. Parakh.
He was previously acquitted of ordering war crimes and of joint conspiracy.
The law was widely criticised by IT communities as it violates human rights by putting citizens under digital surveillance and severely restricting freedom of speech.
Rendering prompt justice is the foremost purpose of the constitution, as enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution as well.
Article 145 was amended and is governed by the Supreme Court Rules of 2013.
In the United Kingdom, Acts of Parliament cannot be set aside under the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty, whereas Orders in the Council, another type of primary legislation not passed by Parliament, can (see Council of Civil Service Unions vs Minister for the Civil Service (1985) and Miller/Cherry (2019)).
For example, "A person may be at risk of statelessness if she is born in a State that applies jus sanguinis while her parents were born in a State that applies jus soli, leaving the person ineligible for citizenship in both States due to conflicting laws."
The CDHRI also guarantees all individuals the "right to participate, directly or indirectly, in the administration of his country's public affairs."
The seat of the court was the Chamber of Princes in the Parliament Building in Delhi.
The Geneva Conventions (GC) and their Additional Protocols (APs) require that any prisoners of war facing a judicial proceeding receive a fair trial.
The Indonesian Supreme Court (Indonesian: Mahkamah Agung) is the highest level of the judicial branch.
The MTP Act details that for terminations up to 12 weeks, the opinion of a single Registered Medical Practitioner (RMP) is required, and for terminations between 12 and 20 weeks, the opinion of two RMPs is required.
Cluster bombs, for example, introduce the same problem as mines: unexploded bomblets can remain a hazard for civilians long after a conflict has ended.
Although Steward and Barnett seemed to be suggesting that anthropology as such should restrict itself to purely academic affairs, people within and outside the academy have continued to debate the ways non-anthropologists have used this principle in public policy concerning ethnic minorities or international relations.
The judgement against Jean-Paul Akayesu established rape as a war crime.
Among the earliest examples are peace treaties between the Mesopotamian city-states of Lagash and Umma (approximately 2100 BCE) and an agreement between the Egyptian pharaoh Ramses II and the Hittite king, Hattusilis III, concluded in 1258 BCE.
The public's opinion on the death penalty varies considerably by country and by the crime in question.
In terms of ultra vires actions in the broad sense, a reviewing court may set aside an administrative decision if it is unreasonable (under Canadian law, following the rejection of the "Patently Unreasonable" standard by the Supreme Court in Dunsmuir v. New Brunswick), Wednesbury unreasonable (under British law), or arbitrary and capricious (under the U.S. Administrative Procedure Act and New York State law).
The sole owner and the nominee shall execute two forms, INC-3 and INC-4, for the entire process of change in the nominee.
The Banda trial in the situation of Darfur, Sudan, was scheduled to begin in 2014, but the start date was vacated.
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 (S/RES/1325), on women, peace, and security, was adopted unanimously by the UN Security Council on 31 October 2000, after recalling resolutions 1261 (1999), 1265 (1999), 1296 (2000), and 1314 (2000).
In the Frontier Dispute Case, both parties to the dispute, Burkina Faso and Mali, submitted an application to the court to indicate interim measures.
Until the Delhi High Court decriminalised consensual private sexual acts between consenting adults on 2 July 2009, homosexuality was considered criminal as per interpretations of the ambiguous Section 377 of the 150-year-old Indian Penal Code (IPC), a law passed by the British colonial government.
Village courts, such as Lok Adalat (the people's court) or Nyaya panchayat (the justice of the villages), offer alternative dispute resolution.
Part II (Articles 17-24) governs the reporting and monitoring of the Convention and the steps taken by the parties to implement it.
Unani was well-received in the Hyderabad region and among Muslims, while Homeopathy was highly popular in Bengal and Odisha.
Alaska saw protests in Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Haines.
The remaining banks have reduced retail opening hours and pushed online banking.
Because of internet censorship in Iran, the Iranian government and the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Sepah have always opposed Iranians joining popular social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, and so on.
Therefore, popular social networks are blocked by those in Iran and because of Iranian protests, internet censorship in Iran has increased.
The literacy rate has risen from 39% in 1991 to 47% in 2001 to 63.8% in 2011.
The CPN (UML) also decided to support Rastriya Prajatantra Party candidates in Jhapa 5, Rupandehi 1, and Banke 2, and decided to field Rastriya Prajatantra Party Nepal chairman Kamal Thapa in Makwanpur 1 under their election symbol.
Protesters in the east and north Khartoum joined the demonstrations, which began after Friday prayers.
Deutsche Bahn, the German national railway company, allowed refugees with a Ukrainian passport or ID card to travel free of charge on long-distance trains from Poland to Germany.
Anita Wolff was listed as the Deputy Editor in 2007, and Theodore Pappas was listed as the Executive Editor.
The Washington Post printed a front-page article on the failures, commenting: "The vaunted helicopters came to symbolise everything wrong with the Army as it enters the 21st century: Its inability to move quickly, its resistance to change, its obsession with casualties, its post-Cold War identity crisis."
In 2007, Marcia Angell, former editor-in-chief of the New England Journal of Medicine and a lecturer in social medicine at the Harvard Medical School, said in Stern, a German-language weekly newsmagazine, that AstraZeneca's scientists had misrepresented their research on the drug's efficiency, saying, "Instead of using presumably comparable doses [of each drug], the company's scientists used Nexium in higher dosages."
In Malaysia, Hein Htet Aung, who plays for second-division Malaysia Premier League club Selangor FC II, flashed the three-finger salute in a match against PDRM FC in early March.
Mass protests against Castillo's government began on 28 March 2022.
On 12 November 2017, Delhi hosted its tenth queer pride parade from Barakhamba Road to Jantar Mantar.
On 14 February, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres issued a statement expressing deep concern about the situation in Myanmar, highlighting "the increasing use of force and the reported deployment of additional armoured vehicles to major cities."
They started to throw rocks, bottles, and pieces of wood at the Polish border guards and tried to destroy the border fence in an attempt to break through the border at the temporarily closed checkpoint of Bruzgi-Kunica.
On 18 April 2022, Gotabaya appointed a new 17-member cabinet despite the protests calling for the entire government to resign, including the president and all 225 MPs in parliament.
The votes in favor were from the benches of Popular Force, APRA, Broad Front, and Popular Action.
On 25 February 1986, the Security Police started rioting, protesting against reports that their term of duty was to be extended from 3 to 4 years.
Two days later, Development Minister Meryame Kitir announced that three million euros would be allocated for additional humanitarian aid to Ukraine.
On 7 March, state-run media and human rights groups confirmed the occupation of public hospitals, universities and temple compounds by security forces.
On April 26, a French citizen is seen on a two-minute-long video asking quarantine workers for help with suicide in three languages.
On May 29 security forces attacked a demonstration in the Al-Kalakla neighbourhood of Khartoum with tear gas and bullets.
On May 14, nearly a thousand protesters rallied around the Pittsburgh City-County Building and about 150 rallied in Bethlehem for the Bans Off Our Bodies event.
Tatmadaw soldiers captured 12 suspected resistance fighters, including 3 injured fighters, after several bombs exploded by accident in Yangon's Hlaing Thar Yar Township.
The 2021 Rugby World Cup, the ninth edition of the women's Rugby World Cup, was held in New Zealand between 8 October and 12 November 2022, postponed from the originally planned schedule of 18 September to 18 October 2021.
Others include the youth channel BBC Three, which originally ceased broadcasting as a linear television channel in February 2016 and returned to television in February 2022, the cultural and documentary channel BBC Four, the news channels BBC News and BBC World News, the parliamentary channel BBC Parliament, and two children's channels, CBBC and CBeebies.
Calls for a boycott of Russian goods spread on social media platforms, while hackers attacked Russian websites, particularly those operated by the Russian government.
He started selling flowers at the Dadar railway station in Mumbai and eventually managed to own two flower shops in the city.
Jihadi, mujahideen, and fedayeen are similar Arabic words that have entered the English lexicon.
The two judges have long records of issuing long-term prison sentences or death penalties for Iranians longing for democracy and opposed to the rule of the Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei.
Preceding the first and following each manvantara is a manvantara-sandhya (connection period), each with a length of Krita-yuga (Satya-yuga).
Because Cronus had betrayed his father, he feared that his offspring would do the same, and so each time Rhea gave birth, he snatched up the child and ate it.
According to Friedhelm Hardy, there is evidence of early "southern Krishnaism," despite the tendency to allocate the Krishna-traditions to the Northern traditions.
Another Buddhist ritual that includes reenactments of the Buddha life myth is the ritual of the consecration of a Buddha image.
Brahm is a leading god (deva) and heavenly king in Buddhism.
In Karnataka, the group of 7th and 8th-century temples at Pattadakal famously mixes forms later associated with both north and south, as does that at Aihole, which still includes apsidal chaitya hall-type plans.
However, the Arabs' higher status among non-Arab Muslim converts and the latter's obligation to pay heavy taxes caused resentment.
Lopez asserts they also used the term Bauddha, although scholar Richard Cohen asserts that that term was used only by outsiders to describe Buddhists.
He had thousands of disciples all over India, Pakistan, and the USA, and he also had many khalifas all over India.
He shows that the major arguments advanced to prove God, from the wonders of nature or the apparent regularity of the universe, are all open to objection (what wonder is there in the existence of certain particularly repulsive insects, what regularity is there in the observation that all the planets turn in nearly the same plane, the same plane might have been striking but 'nearly the same plane' is far less convincing).
In him, the northern region brought forth, as it were, another god of death, bent in rivalry to surpass Yama (the god of death residing in the southern regions).
While the prominent 8th-century Vedic scholar and teacher (acharya) Adi Shankara emphasized that, since Brahman is ever-present, Brahman-knowledge is immediate and requires no 'action', that is, striving and effort, the Advaita tradition also prescribes elaborate preparatory practice, including contemplation of the mahavakyas and accepting yogic samadhi as a means to knowledge, posing a paradox which is also recognized in other spiritual disciplines and traditions.
The arrival of Islam removed the royal patronage to the monastic tradition of Buddhism, and the replacement of Buddhists in long-distance trade by the Muslims eroded the related sources of patronage.
In the third stage, additional ideas were introduced; for example, rituals, repentance, and offerings at Taoist temples were encouraged as they could alleviate the karmic burden.
Anant promised Kaundinya that if he made the 14-year vow, he would be free from all his sins and would obtain wealth, children, and happiness.
Mahayana remained a minority among Indian Buddhists for some time, growing slowly until about half of all monks encountered by Xuanzang in 7th-century India were Mahayanists.
When the Dutch captain Joris van Spilbergen landed in 1602, the king of Kandy appealed to him for help.
The report also selectively quoted general comments and country-specific recommendations made by treaty bodies and propagated controversial and unrecognized principles, including the so-called Yogyakarta Principles, to justify his personal opinion.
This synthesis, blending Confucian rituals and institutions with a broader liberal democratic frame, is distinct from both Western-style liberalism which, for Tseng, suffers from excessive individualism and a lack of moral vision and from traditional Confucianism which, for Tseng, has historically suffered from rigid hierarchies and sclerotic elites.
Sikhism encourages temperance and moderation in food, i.e., to neither starve nor overeat.
Some bhajans are centuries old, popular on a pan-regional basis, and passed down as community traditions, while others are newly composed.
And if some (were) intemperate, they have ceased from their intemperance as was in their power; and obedient to their father and mother and to the elders, in opposition to the past also in the future, by so acting on every occasion, they will live better and more happily.
The Guru Granth Sahib starts with Japji Sahib, while the Dasam Granth starts with Jaap Sahib, also called Japu Sahib.
The Constana Mufti, who is the community's main representative, is elected by a secret ballot from among the imams.
The theological basis of non-violence as the highest religious duty has been interpreted by some Jain scholars not to "be driven by merit from giving or compassion to other creatures, nor a duty to rescue all creatures," but to result from "continual self-discipline," a cleansing of the soul that leads to one's own spiritual development, which ultimately affects one's salvation and release from rebirths.
Many splintered Sikh communities formed during the Mughal Empire era.
The Alai era saw the overthrow of the old nobility of early Mamluk rule.
The Golden Temple in Amritsar and Hazur Sahib are examples.
Fenech states, "Indic mythology permeates the Sikh sacred canon, the Guru Granth Sahib and the secondary canon, the Dasam Granth and adds delicate nuance and substance to the sacred symbolic universe of the Sikhs of today and of their past ancestors."
These narratives function like creation myths, explaining how the school came to be and why it has a special authority to convey the Buddha's teaching.
Contrary to these textual classifications, many revered Hindu texts and doctrines question and disagree with this system of social classification.
The oldest one is the Finnish Islamic Association, which was established in 1925.
The Mourides have had one female marabout, Sokhna Magat Diop, who inherited her father's position.
Typically, during early modern Spain, many nuns were from elite families who had the means to afford the convent dowry and "maintenance allowances," which were annual fees.
Traditional stories, rituals, and taboos of the Inuit are often precautions against dangers posed by their harsh Arctic environment.
In terms of places for worship or praying, Walisongo also uses the term Sanggar in Kapitayan, which represents a four-square building with an empty hole in its wall as the symbol of Sang Hyang Taya in Kapitayan, not arca or statues as in Hinduism or Buddhism.
Adultery is considered immoral by Christians and a sin, based primarily on passages like Exodus 20:14 and 1 Corinthians 6:910.
He described his mother, raised by non-religious parents, as being "detached from religion", yet in many ways the most "spiritually awakened person I have ever known", and as a "lonely witness for secular humanism".
"Adore and revere the worldly knowledge", asserts Sanatkumara in section 7.1 of the Upanishad, "but meditate on all that knowledge in the name, as Brahman."
The mantras are from the Taittiriya Upanishad, Shikshavalli I.11.2, which says: matrudevo bhava, pitrudevo bhava, acharyadevo bhava, atithidevo bhava.
India sent its first national team to the Olympics in 1920 and has participated in every Summer Olympic Games ever since.
Air guns come in both long gun (air rifle) and handgun (air pistol) forms.
Milkha Singh was the only athlete to win an individual gold medal at a Commonwealth Games, but at the 2010 Commonwealth Games, Krishna Punia created history by winning the women's discus throw gold medal for India after 52 years and as the first woman to win a gold in athletics at the Commonwealth Games.
Anju is married to Robert Bobby George, who is a former national champion in the triple jump and her coach too.
Any performance with a following wind of more than 2.0 metres per second is not counted for record purposes.
As of 1 January 2010, men are only allowed to wear suits from the waist to the knees.
Bristol Bears (rugby union) and Gloucestershire County Cricket Club are also based in the city.
In 2014, Singapore Table Tennis Association's president Lee Bee Wah quit over this issue; her successor, Ellen Lee, later favored the application for citizenship of Zeng Jian, a China-born paddler.
Since the 1920s, professional engineers have taken an interest in archery, previously the exclusive domain of traditional craft experts.
Juan Manuel Fangio is five times Formula One world champion under four different teams, winning 102 of his 184 international races, and is widely ranked as the greatest driver of all time.
In India, the Beighton Cup and the Aga Khan tournaments commenced within ten years.
In May 2012, Deepika Kumari won her first World Cup individual stage recurve gold medal in Antalya, Turkey.
She said that her salary was not paid for the past two years, and neither was her leave for subsequent games duly sanctioned by the authority.
The contingents were judged on the basis of their physical development, looks, and personalities.
Ashok Kumar scored the all-important winning goal to achieve India's lone triumph in the World cup.
In the women's freestyle 55kg category at the 2014 Commonwealth Games, Babita's first opponent in the quarter-finals was Kathryn Marsh of Scotland, whom she beat 92, 40 (classification points 4:1).
The 2015 Commonwealth Karate Games were held in Delhi, India.
Men and women have different weights for their throwing implements: men's javelin is 800 grammes compared to women's 600, men's weight throw is 35 pounds compared to women's 20, men's discus is 2 kilogrammes compared to women's 1, men's shot put is 16 pounds compared to women's 8 pounds, and men's hammer throw is also 16 pounds compared to women's 8.
In 2009, he became the vice president of the profitable Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA), while Modi served as its president.
Another format is relay triathlons, where a team of competitors takes turns to compete in a race; each competitor must do a segment of swimming, cycling and running.
According to ICC rules, an ODI match is only official after 25 overs are bowled to the side batting second.
On the reserve day, the Sri Lankans again batted first, scoring 222 runs including Mahela Jayawardene and Russel Arnold scoring 77 and 56 runs respectively, and Indian Zaheer Khan took three wickets for 44 runs.
On the senior circuit, Mirza started to show early success as she made her debut in April 2001 on the ITF Circuit as a 15-year-old.
Originally, it was intended that the top-ranked team in CWC League 2 would be promoted to the next 2020-2023 ICC Cricket World Cup Super League at the expense of its 13th-ranked team if the League 2 team finished as the higher of the two teams in the 2023 Cricket World Cup Qualifier.
She paired with Saketh Myneni to beat China's Hsien Yin Peng and Chan Hao-ching and win gold in the mixed doubles tournament.
Semenya's nation rallied around her to safeguard her dignity, her rights, and her position in world sports.
She became the first woman to have swum across sea channels off five continents in 2005, including the Strait of Gibraltar, the Tyrrhenian Sea, Cook Strait, Toroneos Gulf (Gulf of Kassandra) in Greece, the Catalina Channel off the California coast, and from Three Anchor Bay to Robben Island near Cape Town, South Africa.
She holds the national record for having the most medals at the senior level in the National Championships for one state team.
She is the first woman Basketball player in India to represent the National team in one 2006 Commonwealth Games & two Asian Games 2010, 2014 respectively.
Meanwhile, Lahiri has two European Tour wins and seven Asian Tour wins.
She rose to fame when she won the silver medal at the 2002 Asian Games in Busan, South Korea.
Together, these four events are called the Majors or Slams (a term borrowed from bridge rather than baseball).
The Olympic Flag was carried around the arena by eight former Australian Olympic champions: Bill Roycroft, Murray Rose, Liane Tooth, Gillian Rolton, Marjorie Jackson, Lorraine Crapp, Michael Wenden and Nick Green.
Set in the surroundings of the Sydney Opera House, Brigitte McMahon representing Switzerland swam, cycled and ran to the first gold medal in the sport, beating the favoured home athletes such as Michelie Jones who won silver.
The Triathlon made its Olympic debut with the women's race.
Known in real life as "Kuttinarayanan," this elephant fractured its leg in an accident when he was seven years old when he stepped into a septic tank.
This template was modified in 1875 to the court design that exists today, with markings similar to Wingfield's version, but with the hourglass shape of his court changed to a rectangle.
United States' dominance in sprinting was matched in the longer track races by the United Kingdom.
In the second round, she beat Anne Keothavong to enter the quarterfinals, where she lost to Hsieh Su-Wei.
Other French artists to have represented the sport in their works include Albert Gleizes' Les Joueurs de football (1912), Robert Delaunay's Football. L'Equipe de Cardiff (1916), and Andre Lhote's Partie de Rugby (1917).
Other Indian cuisines are also available in this area even though the street specialises in north Indian food.
Among Baku's cultural venues are the Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Hall, the Azerbaijan State Academic Opera, and the Ballet Theatre.
Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands are also nowhere near short on natural attractions; however, as both those countries get fewer tourists, the highlights of those areas are often underrated.
As of September 2016, there are nine crossing points on the boundary between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, among which six are land connections.
Bangladeshi villages consist of thatched-roofed houses made of natural materials like mud, straw, wood, and bamboo.
This part of Africa is where you can find the quintessential savanna safari experience, venturing out in a Land Rover across the plains to scout lions, cheetahs and elephants.
It was subordinated to the genus Panthera by Reginald Innes Pocock in 1929.
From Balipara, there is another 15 km - you can either take the Itanagar-Bomdila bus that passes through Balipara around 11 AM to drop you at the Nameri bus stop (you will see the "Bhalukpong 22 km" milestone there) or negotiate with one of the numerous shared taxis for a drop at the Nameri bus stop.
Goa has two World Heritage Sites: the Bom Jesus Basilica and the churches and convents of Old Goa.
The Grand Egyptian Museum is the long-awaited primary replacement for the venerable Egyptian Museum in Midan Tahrir, with much bigger exhibition, storage and workplace areas.
Gwalior is also an important historical and tourism sector of the country; therefore, the tourism sector also has an effect on the city's economy.
The cape was later renamed as Cape of Good Hope in honour of the outpost's presence.
Cuban officials estimate roughly 1.6 million tourists visited Cuba in 1999, yielding about $1.9 billion in gross revenues.
Significant Arab, Syrian, Portuguese, Dutch, Jewish, and Middle Eastern influences exist in this region's cuisine.
Lonavla is a hill station in Maharashtra, and you cannot miss the hot masala chai or the vadapav (the vegetarian Indian burger containing a potato patty deep fried in chickpea flour batter as the filler).
Madang is good for scuba diving of all levels, and the coral reefs are home to a variety of rare species of colourful fish.
Finally, tropical Asia, covering a part of East Asia and most of South and Southeast Asia, where it is not cultivated or urbanized, is dominated by various kinds of tropical forests and thousands of beaches ranging from secluded paradise islands like the Maldives to some of the world's most popular beach resorts in Thailand.
Many mountains in the easternmost parts of the continent are volcanic, and Indonesia and Kamchatka are indeed great destinations for volcanic tourism.
Meghalayan cuisine is unique and different from other Northeastern Indian states.
The rich literary traditions of the city have been highlighted internationally by Booker Prize winners Salman Rushdie and Aravind Adiga.
Non-Cambodian visitors must purchase an Angkor Pass to enter Angkor Archaeological Park.
Even amid numerous other attractions in and around Orlando, Florida, the Mouse House stands tall, the beacon that draws millions of tourists a year to the area.
San Francisco Bay Ferry operates from the Ferry Building and Pier 39 to points in Oakland, Alameda, Bay Farm Island, South San Francisco, and north to Vallejo in Solano County.
The nearest Delhi Metro station is Arjan Garh, on the Yellow Line.
Local taxis also travel to Cherrapunji, and they give you the option of stopping at a few viewpoints and sights on the way from Shillong to Cherrapunji (Elephant Falls, Mawkdok Dympep Valley View, and others), as well as visiting spots in Cherrapunji (the Mawsmai Cave, Cherrapunji Eco Park, the Nohsngithiang Falls, or the Seven Sister Falls).
Visitors to the national park have many options, including the remote North Rim; the more accessible (and therefore more crowded) South Rim; parts of the canyon, such as Phantom Ranch or the Colorado River, upon which many boating trips are made.
The Grand Canyon is in northern Arizona, and is one of the great tourist attractions in the United States as well as one of the seven natural wonders of the world.
The Hornbill Festival was launched by the Government of Nagaland in December 2000 to encourage inter-ethnic interaction and to promote the cultural heritage of the state.
The Seven Eleven juice shop in Church Street, also called "juice kadai" by the native people, is a good hangout place.
The best dive sites in the Andamans are in remote locations and are impossible to get without a private yacht charter.
The centerpieces of Walt Disney World are the four theme parks: The Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney's Hollywood Studios, and Disney's Animal Kingdom.
The cuisine consists mainly of food from two different sub-regions, Garhwal and Kumaon, though their basic ingredients are the same.
A 32 km long, narrow outer channel connects the lagoon to the Bay of Bengal, near the village of Motto.
In Bhutan's education system, English is the medium of instruction, while Dzongkha is taught as the national language.
The principal gallery devoted to Asian art in the museum is Gallery 33, with its comprehensive display of Chinese, Indian Subcontinent, and Southeast Asian objects.
The rare and threatened animal species identified are green sea turtle, dugong, Irrawaddy dolphin, blackbuck, Spoon-billed sandpiper, Chilika limbless skink, and fishing cat.
The state has several beaches in its coastal districts, such as Rushikonda, Mypadu, Suryalanka, etc.; caves such as Borra Caves, Indian rock-cut architecture depicting Undavalli Caves, and the country's second-longest caves, the Belum Caves.
Garuda Indonesia conducts weekly open-charter flights from/to Jakarta, with bookings done through Christmas Island Travel Exchange.
As of December 2020, 553 wildlife sanctuaries were established in India, covering 119,776 sq km (46,246 sq mi).
In Karaikal liquor is cheaper than in the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, there are quite a few decent bars in Karaikal - the Niagra bar in the Nanda hotel, the Thunder bar in the Paris International, the City bar - a very famous one in the town, and The Sea Gulls Restaurant owned by the government of Pondicherry which is at the sea shore and is good to hang out in the evenings.