Mom, let's go for a movie tomorrow.
I don't have to go to school.
It is a holiday.
Oh, tomorrow is the 14th of April right?
Your dad will also have the day off from work.
We can make a movie plan!
That's a good news!
Why is it a holiday though?
Are all schools, colleges and offices closed tomorrow?
It is Ambedkar Jayanti tomorrow!
This day is celebrated annually to mark the birth of Dr. B. R Ambedkar.
Have you heard of him?
I think I have seen him in my History and Civics book.
Is he related to our Constitution?
Absolutely! He is known as the father of the Indian Constitution.
He was a civil rights activist who played a major role in formulating the Constitution.
He played a crucial part in shaping the vibrant democratic structure that India prides itself upon.
I remember now!
We were discussing about him in our Civics class the other day.
Ma'am said that she will tell us more about him when we do the chapter on the Indian Constitution
He fought to remove the class distinction that prevailed in the society, right?
Yes. Being a Dalit himself, he realised how hard is it to deal with the evil of untouchability.
Thus, he fought for the rights of the lower class.
He extensively campaigned against the discrimination and came out victorious.
Wow, what a strong personality!
That is why the day is also commemorated as Equality Day all across the subcontinent.
I am sure you are going to love reading about this man when you study the chapter in school.
Yes mom, I can't wait for it.
I am really intrigued.
Okay, now tell me what movie do you want to go for?
Do you want to watch the new Marvel movie?
You mean Doctor Strange and the Multiverse of Madness?
I am dying to watch it.
Can you book the tickets?
Let me talk to Dad.
Hey, you are pursuing.a course in web designing, aren't you?
One of my friends is thinking of doing the same so, I told her I'd get some information from you about it.
Yeah, I am in my second year.
That's great, so what does she want to know?
Which are the colleges that offer a diploma course in web designing?
She is not very sure of her choice, so she just wants to try it out at this point.
Ok, I get that.
It is available at a lot of colleges like the School of Fashion Technology, Pune; Stella Maris College, Chennai and Loyola College, Chennai among numerous others.
You went to Loyola College, right?
Yeah, I studied there.
These colleges that you mentioned are pretty well known.
What is the entrance process?
Yeah, some colleges conduct their own entrance exams.
They look at the 10th and 12th standard grades as well.
There are national tests like the NID Entrance Exam, too.
My friend did really well for her boards, so she can ace any merit-based entrance.
She is not so confident in her creative skills.
How long is the diploma course in these universities?
It usually lasts between a year or two.
It actually depends on the college you take admission at.
Are the career options good?
Yeah, the job prospects in this field are promising.
This is especially considering the world becoming increasingly digital.
Hmm.. I see what you mean.
Do you know anyone who has taken this course before?
Yeah, one of my friends did a diploma in web designing some five years back.
He is a successful web designer today.
Can I have his contact information, if you don't mind?
Its so that I can give it to my friend so she can talk to someone in detail about the course.
Of course, I shall send you the contact on WhatsApp.
Am I too late?
Did the parade start?
I don't know why I overslept.
Don't worry, you are right on time.
It has just been 5 minutes.
Come and have a seat.
What did I miss?
Nothing much! Just the unfurling of the national flag by the President.
And the booming 21-gun salute to the president.
At present, the different regiments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, along with their bands are marching from the Rashtrapati Bhawan along the Rajpath.
Where are they heading to?
To the India Gate and finally to the Red fort.
As each of them go by, they pay homage to the President.
And look how he in turn is standing up and encouraging them as they march forward.
I wish to see all of it in person someday.
What about the representation of different states?
Will it be after the army marches past?
Yes, once all the regiments march away, they will arrive.
Each state is represented by a tableaux.
They showcase the history, culture, heritage, dvelopment programmes and environment of their respective states.
They carry some animations and sound along with them.
It is a very colorful display.
Yeah, and my favourite part of the entire parade too.
I still remember how the tableaux of West Bengal was decorated last time.
And also the dancers on it, exhibiting the folk dance form of rural bengal.
I wonder what they have in store this year.
Let us wait and watch.
But do not forget, you have your sit and draw competition today at around 12 noon.
Are you prepared for that?
I have practised my sketches already.
I am drawing a glimpse of the Republic Day parade itself.
I hope I can bag a prize.
Do not bother about the prizes.
Just enjoy yourself out there.
I wish you all the best.
Thank you so much, Dad.
But make sure you watch the part of the parade I will be missing due to the competition.
I will hear about it at bedtime.
Hello, is this Samadhan helpline?
Yes, how can I help you?
I'm Harish, and I'm calling on behalf of Swami Vivekanand Educational Institute.
I'd like to learn more about the Merit-cum-Means Scholarship Programme.
So that I can inform our students about this programme.
Alright! The Scheme's principal goal is to provide financial help to underprivileged and deserving students from minority populations.
And with this scholarship, they will be able to pursue professional and technical education.
This scheme is initiated by the Ministry of Minority Affairs.
Yes, sir.
Is it correct that the scholarship is for studies in India, sir?
Yes. The scholarship will only be given to students studying in a government or private university in India.
Is this scholarship only for undergraduate students?
No, it will cover technical and professional courses at undergraduate and post graduate level.
What are the criteria for applying for this scholarship?
Students who received at least 50% or an equivalent grade in their previous final examination will be eligible for a scholarship.
Also, if their parents' or guardians' annual income from all sources does not exceed Rs. 2.50 lakh.
Sir, how many students will be awarded with the MCM?
A total of 60,000 scholarships are targeted to be distributed as Fresh Scholarships, besides renewal scholarships.
That's a large number, and it will be beneficial to students who are in need.
These scholarships are also a source of motivation for other students.
Yes, you are right.
There is one reservation policy, that is 30% scholarship is earmarked for girls students of each minority community in a State/UT.
Oh, that's excellent.
How long will this scholarship last?
Scholarship will be provided for the entire academic year/course.
And the maintenance allowance will be given as fixed lump sum amount for an academic year of Rs. 10,000/- for hostellers and Rs. 5,000/- for day scholars.
Great! How to apply for the scholarship?
The scheme is implemented through the National Scholarship Portal (NSP).
It is mandatory for all students to apply online on the website i.e. www.scholarships.gov.in.
It will be useful for them.
You can download more details from the National Scholarship Portal.
Sure, sir. Thank you so much!
You are welcome.
Hello, I am getting married in the coming month.
Could you please guide me on the legal procedure?
How can I make my marriage a valid legal entity?
A marriage must be registered for it to be acknowledged legally.
The process of registration of a marriage ends with the bride and the groom obtaining a marriage certificate.
How can I obtain a marriage certificate?
You are required to submit an affidavit requesting the registration of your marriage.
A couple can submit a joint affidavit for their marriage, or they can choose to submit an individual affidavit.
Is there any difference between the two?
Not significantly as much, but some states mandate a joint affidavit submission.
Okay, what are the steps in filing a joint affidavit for registration of marriage?
Marriages can be registered under two acts in India, the Special Marriage Act of 1954 and the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955.
The former is applicable to everyone regardless of their faith or religion, and it includes Indian nationals living in foreign countries.
Interfaith marriages are to be registered under that act too.
The latter is an act for two Hindus, extending to Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs.
What steps are to be followed to submit a joint affidavit under the Special Marriage Act?
First, a notice of intended marriage has to be filed to the Marriage Registrar of your district.
It can only be filed from a place where either parties have resided for a minimum of thirty days.
This notice is then displayed on the notice board at the Registrar's office allowing any person who objects to the alliance to come forward.
If no one objects to the alliance within 30 days, is the marriage solemnised?
Yes, the bride and the groom are called to the office to solemnise their marriage in the presence of 3 witnesses from either side.
Each of these six witnesses have to sign in the register.
How is the process different for the Hindu Marriage Act?
The couple has to fill an application form and submit it along with two photographs of their wedding ceremony and an invitation card for the same.
Both parties must submit proofs of their identity, age and address.
Separate affidavits declaring that they do not have any living spouses at the time of the marriage must be notarised beforehand and submitted.
Is there any time duration within which one must have their marriage registered?
Who can be a witness to the registration of the marriage?
Under the Hindu Marriage Act, you need to register your marriage within one month of the wedding ceremony.
Both the bride and the groom sign the registers in the presence of three witnesses.
Parents or guardians of each party should be present during the registration.
Which documents will be required for the affidavit?
The application form, ID proof, proof of address, proof of birth date, two passport photos of the bride and the groom are compulsorily needed.
In case of a divorcee or a widow/widower, the divorce decree or the death certificate of the previous spouse is required.
Hello, this is my first time applying for an e-visa.
I was hoping you could tell me what documents I need to apply.
Of course, I am glad you called me.
May I ask which country you need a visa for?
I need a tourist visa for India.
I'll be visiting for a week.
Ok, the most important document you need is a passport.
You need to ensure that the passport is valid for at least six months on the expected date of arrival in India.
We get a lot of cases that are rejected just for this reason.
Yes, I already checked my passport validity, and it complies with what you just said.
Is there anything else I need?
Ok, that's good then.
The next thing you need is a valid email ID.
Please be careful about this too, as when an Indian visa has been processed and approved, it will be sent directly to the email address given on the application.
Is it okay if I use an official ID and not a personal one?
I don't check the mails on my personal ID very often.
That does not matter.
The e-mail address needs to be active, that's all.
Are these the only things that I require?
There are also e-visa India evidence requirements that are needed to obtain the authorization to travel to India.
Applicants are required to submit a scanned color copy of the first page or the biographical page of their valid passport.
Each applicant must also submit a recent passport-style, color photo
That is quite a lot of specifications.
I'll note it down so I don't forget.
That's a good idea.
You also need a debit or credit card.
Ok, I have one in my possession.
Is it okay if I call again in case I have other doubts?
Of course, feel free to contact us in case of any queries.
I have to take a Foreign language from this year.
I'm not sure which one to take.
There are too many options.
Frankly, I am confused.
Which language do you think I should take?
I would suggest picking one that you like.
That way, you will have an interest in learning it.
Also, you won't feel like feeling forced learning it.
That is the problem.
I think I like every language.
If I had an option, I would have taken them all.
For next year, I can only take one.
Then I would suggest taking a language most beneficial for you.
One that will be of help in the future.
Have you decided what you want to be in the future?
I haven't decided anything of that sort.
Can you tell me which language is beneficial for which fields?
It will be really helpful for me to choose later.
If you want to take up literature, French would be the best for that.
There are lots of literature works that you can read.
If you want to step into entertainment field, Korean is gonna help.
K-pop and K-dramas are gaining a lot of popularity these days.
Spanish would be really useful for tourism.
These all sound wonderful.
I think I would be taking science for my further studies.
Which all languages are best for scientific studies?
German would be the best language for you.
As most of the early scientific documents were written in German, it will be really helpful.
Moreover, there are a lot of further studies opportunities in Germany.
But, if you want to go into technologies, I think it would be better to take up Chinese.
You will need it to catch up with the pace they are inventing technologies.
I am sure this will be helpful for me to choose in the future.
Good morning to all my dear students.
Hope you all are doing fine.
Do you remember how we started talking about rivers in our last class?
Can you tell me what you know about some of the well known rivers of our country, with some unique features?
Good Morning, miss Lea!
I remember a few rivers from the last class.
We started with the river Ganga, also called Ganges, which is the longest river of India, it has a lot of religious significance, but at the same time, it is also one of the highly polluted rivers.
It originates from Gangotri in Himachal Pradesh, and has a length of around 2525 km, flowing through more than 15 major Indian cities.
And yes, it has also created the largest Deltas in the world: the Sundarbans in West Bengal.
You remember about Indus?
This river gave rise to the largest ancient human civilisations, Indus valley civilisation and holds a great historical value.
Yes, you said it is also called the Sindhu.
It flows through China, Pakistan, as well as India.
India has only five per cent share of it, yet it is one of the most important rivers in terms of civilization, as well as economy.
Ma'am, you also mentioned something about the relevance of the words India and Indus; could you please repeat that part?
The Indus Waterway going through northwest India into Pakistan got its name from the Sanskrit expression Sindhu.
The Persians assigned the land around the Indus Waterway as Hindu, an error of the Sanskrit Sindhu and hence the name India is derived from Indus.
Oh, right, you did teach us all this, thank you.
Do you remember about the facts we were discussing about the largest river of India, Brahmaputra sometime back?
From where it originates and how it is having a different name there?
It originates from Angsi Glacier near Mount Kailash, and it is also called Yarlung Tsangpo.
It's delta is home to 130 million people and 6, 00, 000 people living on the riverine islands.
But ma'am, how can both Ganga and Brahmaputra be the largest Indian rivers?
Brahmaputra is clearly longer than Ganga.
Ganga is longest whereas Brahmaputra is the largest in terms of it's waterflow.
Godavari is the second longest after Ganga, and the longest river in Southern India also known as 'Dakshina Ganga'.
The river has been revered in Hindu scriptures for many millennia and continues to harbour and nourish a rich cultural heritage.
And the Krishna- Godavari Basin is one of the main nesting sites of the endangered Olive Ridley Turtles.
Indeed it is.
I am really impressed to see that you have a good idea of rivers in details.
Thank you, ma'am, you taught us most of it in the previous class.
And we'll learn more in the next one.
It's time! See you all tomorrow, kids!
Hello, you seem worried, what's going on?
Yeah, I have been watching updates on the Odisha cyclone for hours.
It's the second day of the cyclone, and the whole city is in a mess.
It is difficult to go outside even for basic amenties.
Thankfully our locality is still having electricity till now, most of the areas are out of electricity.
I am so sorry to hear that, I hope your family and you are safe.
Do you have any idea on how long it might go on for?
According to the predicted weather forecast and the latest one, it will be on for 3 days approximately.
But I am more worried about the consequences though.
The last cyclone happened in the year 2020, went on for 2 days and it took almost 15 days in some of the areas to get the electricity back.
Odisha is very prone to this kind of damages whenever some or the other natural disaster took place.
You did come to Odisha in the year 2020, were you present during the cyclone?
No, thankfully I had left just a week before the cyclone.
I wonder what it's like for the people living there, it's such a vulnerable thing!
Especially the masses near the coasts.
Does the government help these people rebuild their homes and livelihood?
It must be terrible losing years of effort within a day or two.
Government does help as much as possible, especially in the rural areas, where people are mostly left on their own.
Last time workers were brought from different states so that the work could be fastracked.
Even the municipal corporation people also worked round the clock so that they can get the electricity back on time as there were kids and senior citizens present who were facing a lot of difficulties.
Odisha is one the places, faces extreme weather conditions during these times.
It's good to know that citizens get timely aid.
Still unfortunate to see how dreadful things get because of such extreme weather conditions.
How long have you been living there?
Has the nature of climate ever motivated you to leave the state?
It's been 5 years now that I have been living here.
The weather is fine, though the summers are quite hot and humid, but the other factors are fine so it never occured to me to leave the place.
The monsoons seem to be a bit difficult but it has become manageable over the years now.
I see, that does sound manageable; I just hope things get better soon.
I am sorry, I have to leave, could you maybe give a quick update on the cyclone?
How things currently are and how are people coping with it right now.
There are a lot of organisations here which are catering help to the people, in terms of groceries, medical facilties and medicines and all the necessary items as and when it is needed.
In most the areas even teams are formed which can work in providing any kind of help if need be.
Well there is not much we can do as well, apart from having patience and helping each other.
Yes, that's right!
You all please take care of yourselves and each other.
I hope this gets well soon; do let me know if there's anything we can do from here.
Sure I will definitely let you know.
Finally, the unlock has started.
No more heavy restrictions.
I would have turned into a lunatic, if I were to stay one more week indoors.
Who said you aren't one?
Jokes apart, the initiation of unlock doesn't mean you can do anything you want.
The night curfews will still be on.
The mask mandate and social distancing norms will still be applicable.
And most importantly, taking the vaccine should be our immediate concern.
Oh, is it mandatory to get vaccinated?
Doesn't a person become immune once he or she has been affected by Covid previously?
Oh god! Where do you get all these wrong notions from?
No, one doesn't become immune to Covid once they have been affected in the past.
Infact there is no relation between the two.
And most importantly, the vaccination is absolutely compulsory.
Everyone has to take either of the two verified vaccines namely Covishield and Covaxin.
So you mean to say I need to go and take the vaccine first and then think of the things I would like to do during the unlock.
Not one, but two doses of the same vaccine.
You will be asked to show your vaccine certificates before entering a mall or travelling by trains or flights.
Really? They do? How can I be so unware of this.
Infact I was planning a vacation with my family this summer.
For that, everyone of you will have to be vaccinated with atleast the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination.
They will ask you for your vaccination certificates, at the entrances.
Please be careful about the news updates.
Yeah thank you, all this while I had been thinking otherwise.
I will get my jab as soon as possible.
Yes please, we should not forget that the pandemic isn't gone yet.
I hope you have registered yourself on the CoWIN website.
Yes I am registered.
Then please check out a suitable date for the vaccine and get it scheduled.
It's high time you should get your vaccine
I will do it today itself.
Thanks for clearing my misconception.
Hello, sir, where can I register a complaint?
What kind of complaint do you have?
Sir, our village is not getting clean drinking water.
The government has promised us clean water, but we are not getting it in our village.
No inspection happened in your village till now?
No, sir, he has not visited our village for months.
Which village are you from?
Sir, I am from Mahuvariya village.
And who is your village head there?
Sir, I am the village head there.
Ok, sir, please tell me about your complaint in detail.
I will forward it to the supervisor of the water supply department.
Sir, first of all, we got the water supply after a lot of hassle.
We had to come to this office regularly for that.
We even had to stage a protest in front of this office demanding a proper water supply in our network.
After much hassle, we got that, but now the water coming from the pipes is very dirty.
How dirty it is, can you explain?
Is it muddy, or does it have some sort of impurities?
It is muddy water, sir.
It also contains impurities.
Many of the villagers had to suffer from skin allergies after using it.
Oh, that is very serious.
Yes, sir, it is very serious.
We do not have clean water in our ponds and tube wells.
The water there contains an exceeding amount of iron.
But we have no other way than to use the pond and tube wells for now.
It is leading to serious health concerns.
Did anyone fall sick after drinking the supplied water?
No, sir, not yet; because we immediately stopped using it at all.
After we saw the skin allergies occurring in many villagers, we stopped using it.
Otherwise, it could've easily caused us stomach ache and diarrhea-like diseases.
I will forward your complaint to the supervisor immediately.
He will send someone to inspect the situation right after that.
You can go home now.
I will do the rest.
Heyy, I didn't see you at the usual spot
Where were you today?
It looks like you're coming back from somewhere
Where did you go?
Long story, give me some time
I just need to change into these
Speaking of clothes, yours look ragged and dirty
Which is exactly why I'm changing it before coming into the village
And I can't come to our usual spot anymore
Can't afford to get cigarettes every week
I'm trying to quit smoking
Wow, that was unexpected
And to answer your earlier question
I just returned from the nearby village
The recent rains washed away the usable road so I had to hitch hike
Why are you going there though?
You could've always asked me if you wanted help with something
Cannot expect you to help me here
I go there every other morning to play football
There's a ground with goal posts and nets on the other side of that village
Since the area is public property, anyone can come and play
So you go early to get space and time to play, right?
Exactly, I have to get there at least by 7:30
Which means I have to leave home by 5
It's very hectic but what can we do, eh?
There is literally not a single unused open space in this village
Well I suppose that is true
Did you try asking the elders about whether they could clear up a space?
No, why would they even bother?
They are too caught up in their political and religious ideologies
Even my own family wants me to stop going to school and start working to earn money
Do you think they'll encourage me to pursue football?
I understand that, it's very sad
We don't even have the resources to properly play anything here actually
I'm saving up my pocket money to buy some boots
Then I'll aim for the try-outs
Let's see what happens
Did you watch this year's Wrestlemania?
It felt different somehow, but with Rhodes's return, it was definitely something enjoyable.
I generally don't watch a lot of wrestling but I was looking forward to Wrestlemania this year.
I couldn't watch it however and just saw the highlights later.
I didn't know where it was available.
I thought there was a live stream on Youtube.
But I watched it on Sony Ten 1.
It was also streamed live on the WWE network.
Oh, I didn't know it was available on the Sony channel.
It was actually the highlight for 2 days and played throughout the day.
You can also watch it in Hindi on Sony Ten 3.
I missed it then.
I'll try to catch the next one when it comes.
I always wanted to try and watch the whole live event but most channels here don't cover it.
Yes, but you don't have to wait for the next Wrestlemania to watch another live event.
Wrestlemania Backlash 2022 will take place at 8 PM on May 8th in the USA.
So that will be May 9th in India and the event will start at 5:30 am.
I hope I get to watch it.
It will be difficult though, May 9th is a monday.
But it'll take quite long so you may still be able to watch a few hours of the show.
What are the main events in the Backlash?
The event will feature AJ Styles going against Edge and Seth Rollins battling Cody Rhodes.
It is going to be a big deal after Rhodes's return this year, the fans are excited.
Are there any exciting tag matches?
Actually yes, there will be a six-man tag team match going on in the event.
Roman Reigns and the Usos will be going against Drew McIntyre and RK-Bro.
Those people hold a lot of titles.
Isn't Roman Reigns the WWE Universal Champion?
Yes, and the Usos are Smackdown Tag-team Champions and RK-Bro is the Raw Tag Team Champions.
However, this one is not a title match, but the fans are excited.
Both sides are fan favourites and Randy Ortons v/s Reigns must be something fans are looking forward to.
Yes, so try it and watch it if possible, but it is somewhat difficult because of the time.
Hi Dimpi! How are you?
It has been a while since we talked last.
Is everything okay at your end?
Hi Devanga! I am good.
Yes, it has been quite a while.
Everything is good here except my cousin brother.
Oh! What happened to him?
I haven't heard anything from anyone.
Is he okay now?
He met with an accident last fortnight.
Now recovering well by God's grace.
Thank God that the health insurance covered the expenses.
Glad to hear that he is recovering.
What was the health insurance?
I am also thinking of buying one health insurance.
His health insurance was Star Health Insurance.
He bought a family floater insurance.
It covers upto 5 family members.
What is the premium amount?
Do we have to renew it monthly?
How can we buy that?
Does it offer cashless hospitalization facility?
The premium varies based on the plan you opt for.
You can choose from a number of plans.
The details can be found online.
You can pay the premium monthly, quarterly, six-monthly or annually.
Yes, this insurance provides cashless hospitalization facility through their network hospitals.
They have more than 500 hospitals under their network all over India.
That sounds really good!
Cashless hospitalization facility eases the stress at the time of admission to a hospital.
We don't have the cash all the time.
Most importantly, we don't know when and how misfortune knocks at our doors.
Do we need to produce any medical certificate at the time of enrolling?
No medical certificate is needed for applicants whose age is not more than 40.
You will have to declare about your pre-existing diseases if any in the form.
The enrollment process is a easy one.
Can I buy this insurance online?
When can I expect the policy copy in hand?
Do they send it by post?
Yes, you can buy it online.
After making the payment online, they will send you the soft copy of the policy in your mail.
A hard copy of the same will reach you via post.
Please visit their website for details.
I am sending you the link.
It's Goa, baby!!!
I can't believe we're finally going.
This is like the seventh time we planned.
This is totally Dil Chahta Hai vibes.
And it is finally happening.
If only it was convertible and also red!
I know, right?
It feels super amazing.
So, do we have a plan for the journey?
Don't judge me, but this is my first ever road trip.
We will listen to the best playlist I made last night.
Take turns in driving.
And make stops for the most amazing pictures.
Because the views en route are stunning.
I hope you have all the Bollywood road trip songs.
Ain't no road trip without ZNMD and Dil Chahta Hai songs.
Absolutely!
I think Bollywood spoils us.
We try to compare every experience with it.
But it has set some standards too which is good.
Here, let's connect this.
I agree! My entire life revolves around Bollywood.
So, how long is the drive?
Is there anything we can do on the way, other than clicking pictures?
Wait! I just realized that you said it's your first road trip.
Seriously?
If so, we have got to make it a memorable one.
You have to! I want this experience to be one of a kind.
I don't know when will I get to do this again.
I am very used to Trains and Flights.
Aren't they more convenient?
Especially when the trip is shorter.
I find road trips way more convenient.
And they actually transition you into a holiday.
So you can feel more relaxed.
With flights..boom..you are there!
Trains are still better.
That's there, but on road trips, half the vacation goes on the road.
But I guess both have their own perks.
Let's see if Goa changes my perception about road trips.
It will convert you.
But first, we need to make a pit stop.
This is going to be fun.
Let me click a few pictures outside while you get it fuelled.
Hey, I heard your brother knows the concert organizers of A P Dhillon.
I'm trying to get some passes for a long time, which I'm not able to yet.
Can you help me, please?
Yes, he is in the team of the organizers as well.
I will ask him if there are any extra tickets available or not.
How many tickets do you want?
I want five tickets, for me and my friends.
When we planned it was around 10k for a ticket.
But now they're selling at 35 to 40k, I heard.
Can you just confirm the price as well?
Actually the estimation made by the organizers have gone up to an extent.
But they are not so costly as you are saying.
There are some agents who are selling the tickets in black, so you might have heard from them.
The ticket prices are 8k per head.
But I doubt I can arrange for 5 tickets at the moment.
You're absolutely correct that middlemen are the people who raise the prices.
That won't go to the organizers but affects prices so much.
The fans are so crazy that they buy from them anyway.
I was about to quit the plan itself because of that, but I remembered you.
If it is difficult to get 5, can you try 2 at least?
2 tickets can be arranged.
I will ask my brother and get the tickets for you soon.
You can send him the payment directly, that will be easy.
Thank you yaar, I had promised my girlfriend.
She would have pestered me till the next concert.
By the way, who goes to such concerts for the sake of music yar, it's just a high for me.
But I can't tell this to her, as I told you, my friend.
I understand the scenario.
Don't worry 2 tickets can be well arranged of.
I have already informed my brother and he has booked your tickets already.
So now you can be rest assured and collect it from me tomorrow when we will be meeting.
Sure dude, thank you.
Most welcome, lets catchup soon.
Hello, is this Mrs. Radhika, Arts teacher at Trinity Elementary School?
Yes. Who is this?
My name is John Bernad, and I am Michele's father.
Okay sir, how can I help you?
Michel has expressed an interest in learning music.
I am so confused to select a genre.
Could you assist me?
What is the easiest genre of music to learn?
Sure.
Children should learn classical music, in my opinion.
Is it beneficial for children to study classical music?
Yes. It's quite difficult but classical music has huge emotional benefits for children.
According to studies, listening to live classical music evokes positive feelings in children.
It also has an effect on their listening and concentration abilities.
Classical music is beneficial to children's development, that's nice.
What other advantages does classical music have?
Classical music necessitates practise and perseverance.
This training will discipline the child's life.
It functions as an antidepressant.
It also soothes children's minds.
Yeah, a calm child is more joyful.
As children learn to listen carefully rather than just hear,
their memory cells begin to work harder to store notes, tunes, tones, methods, approaches, and so on.
Okay, I'll look for a classical music teacher in the area for Michele.
I understand that classical music is India's soul.
That's great.
Please keep in mind that if she is not interested in classical music, you should not force her to learn it.
We should encourage them based on their abilities.
Sure ma'am.
Thank you so much for your guidance.
You are welcome, and please convey my greetings to Michele.
Okay, bye!
Do you have a holiday tomorrow?
Why would I have a holiday on a weekday?
Well, there will be a rally tomorrow.
Our neighbourhood children got a holiday.
I thought you will get one too,
I don't have any holiday.
Then I think it'd be better if you take leave for tomorrow.
What is the big deal about this rally?
A lot of rallies happen all the time.
This one will be huge.
Because all the major parties, Bharatiya Janata Party, Trinamool Congress, and Communist Party, are taking part in it.
All of them?
Yes, and I doubt if you will be able to make it home on time.
If you go to the office tomorrow.
I doubt it too.
But I know nothing about this.
Why are they doing this?
They are doing this because the government didn't do everything as they promised in the manifesto.
Is that so?
Then what about the time when Bharatiya Janata Party was ruling?
They did not do it as promised either.
True, but who cares?
This is how politics is always, right?
Yes, they protest against one other for publicity and stuff.
But in reality, these get to nothing.
Other than us suffering because of traffic and everything.
Exactly, I hope this won't be going on till tomorrow evening.
Will you be going?
I have to, there is so much work in the office.
I can't take a leave because of this.
Then go by public transport tomorrow.
We never know what might happen.
What if there will be some fights?
Remember, they burned down your colleague's bike a year before?
You are worrying too much.
Nothing like that will happen.
Hey, how do you always get the highest marks in Geography?
You barely study.
And then there's me!
Hi, there's a little secret of mine that I follow.
Wouldn't share with anyone...
Between jokes apart, basically I have a keen interest in Geography from the very beginning.
Honestly I don't study the subject all round the clock.
During the class hours when ma'am teaches us the chapters I try to connect it with the actual scenario and paint a picture in my mind.
That way even I get concepts clear too.
What do you mean by connecting with actual scenarios?
It's Geography! All there is to it is mountains, rivers, oceans, climate, and unnecessary numbers.
What do you even like about it?
It's like the most boring of all the boring subjects.
If you think that way.
As you know I tend to travel a lot and watch a lot of movies.
Whatever we study, it's all around us, we need to look up.
So whatever we study I try to recall the images and some of the places I have been to, or watched in movies and connect them.
That way it is more of a visual thing for me, and you will remember for a longer period of time.
Have you ever thought of studying this way?
Perhaps you're right, this method does help sometimes.
But you know, for me it's very difficult to connect with a subject like Geography.
Maybe it fascinates you because you travel a lot; in my case, on the other hand, it's all just fictitious information.
Besides, we have Indian Geography as part of our syllabus, and you guys probably study the best places in the world!
It's different for us!
I can understand that it is a bit dfferent, but you can try watching a few videos for some selective topics, that also gives an idea.
I kindoff started that way in the very beginning and then found alternatives.
It is more of an audio-visual thing.
If you want I can help you on this.
Yes, I guess I'd like that.
Do you think travelling so much has developed your liking for the subject or could it be the other way around?
I mean, does all this information about weather conditions, places, structures, and what not come handy when you're out exploring places?
Especially in India where there's hardly anything special to see!
It's not really the case.
We have lot to see in India, most of the major waterbodies, hills and plains you will find in India too.
Like take for example the different Himalayan ranges which you can see from different states like Kanchenjunga, and many more are there, is one of a kind and each range have it's own feature to share.
The waterbodies also tend to get divided in a number of places resulting in deltas and islands.
Those masses of lands have some unique feature of their own.
Maybe you're right! I remember miss Lea's class on Indian geography, and how she carved an intriguing picture for us.
It's just how you can make the subject more interesting using different tips and tricks on your own.
I dislike leaving the house for days but maybe I can try to keep an open mind and try looking at things the way you do.
These shows and movies might come handy.
Good talk, man! Thanks a lot!
You are welcome.
Hello, I'm calling about booking a cab to take me from the university hostel to Z Square mall.
How soon can I get one?
I can send one of our drivers to your address immediately.
Where do you want to be picked up from?
I will wait in the main campus which is very close to the entrance.
The security guard will let you in without issues.
Ok, can the cab enter the campus premises?
Is that allowed?
We got into trouble with another university once; I am asking just to be sure.
It's fine as long as they are notified beforehand.
I have informed them now so you will not face any trouble getting in.
Ok, can you send me some sort of document or screenshot to validate this?
I am sorry for the trouble, but it is company policy.
I have a copy of the campus guidelines that state this.
I have just sent it to you on WhatsApp.
Ok, that should work.
For convenience in the future, you can make use of an app to avail our services in the campus.
It is called Trava-Go and is available in the Google Play Store.
That would help out a great deal.
Are you familiar with the whereabouts of the hostel?
I am new to the area, so I am afraid I don't have a lot of idea.
But I am sure the driver who gets assigned to you will know their way around.
I'll send the location to you just in case he doesn't.
Do I have to pay the fare beforehand or on arrival at the destination?
That is your choice.
You can either make the payment in advance or pay after the ride.
If you need the cab to wait for you, there will be additional charges.
There will be no need for that.
I will be ready in ten minutes so I hope that the cab can be available by then.
Ok, your cab is expected to reach your location in 15 minutes.
Thank you for using our cab service.
Hello sir, I am Adarsh's mother.
I am here to discuss some things about my son.
As you are his class teacher, I felt it would be best if I discuss my worries with you.
Please make yourself comfortable.
What would you like to discuss?
I am worried about my son's growing addiction to mobile phones and video games.
He is always busy playing games on the phone.
And I am really worried about his health and his studies as well.
Oh, that is worrisome.
This addiction is increasing among these young kids.
You should try to incorporate some enjoyable hobbies in him to tackle this problem.
Good hobbies as in?
Can you give me some suggestions?
You should encourage him to read story books in his free time.
It is the best hobby, in my opinion, for a student.
Also, to get him away from mobile gaming, you can get him enrolled in a sports academy.
Martial arts, swimming, cricket, etc. are some good sports he can try.
That way, he will stay fit as well.
When he is not playing games, he usually watches videos of some singing reality shows.
So, I felt he must be interested in music.
Should I enroll him in a music school instead?
Will that be a positive hobby for him?
That will be a great hobby, no doubt.
You can do that.
But you also need to make sure that he goes out and plays with other kids.
He needs to see the outside world and the joy of it.
Yes, I am thinking of taking him to our nearest playground every evening.
And I will enroll him in a music school as well.
I hope it makes a difference.
I will buy him some good comic books as well so that he gets interested in reading books.
Yes, that should be your first step.
I think after doing that, he will find an interest in these things.
Do you have any other queries?
No, sir, that is all I wanted to discuss.
Thank you so much for your suggestions.
You're welcome.
Please come again if the issue remains the same.
Yeah, sure.
Hi, are you new to this university?
Yes, I enrolled this year.
What about you?
Me too.
I've also joined this year.
What is your name?
And which club did you join?
I am Debendra, and I joined the sports' club.
What about you?
I joined the music club.
Are you interested in all kinds of sports?
No, actually I am more interested in biking than sports.
I like to ride long miles, it's my hobby.
But as there is nothing else that interests me here other than sports, so I joined it.
I play football sometimes.
Oh, really?
You must be so adventurous then!
Yes, you can say that.
I am not really into these adventure sports.
How do you guys do it?
Aren't you scared?
No, biking isn't scary and I am not an outrageous rider either.
You should try that; it is peaceful when the road is empty and beautiful.
By the way, is singing your hobby?
Yeah, I like singing.
How did you know, by the way?
No, I just asked, as you said, you joined the music club.
What kind of music do you perform?
I like singing Assamese songs.
But I do perform songs in other languages as well.
Singing makes my mind calm.
I love listening to songs and that's how singing became my hobby.
Tell me more about your hobby.
Wow, that is amazing.
As I told you, I like to ride long miles on my motorcycle.
I mostly go out during the weekend with my group.
Would you like to come with us sometime?
Yeah, sure, why not?
I would love to try that someday.
Ok, I'll tell you the next time we go out on a ride.
What is your favorite destination, by the way?
We often go to Meghalaya as both the roads and the places there are beautiful.
Wow, that's amazing.
I'll come next time for sure, then.
Sure!
Good morning, everyone.
As you all know, it's 5th June, which is observed as World Environment Day.
Mr. Balasubramaniam here is the head of the Forest Department of the Eastern zone.
Over to him.
Good morning. I hope you all are well.
I'm from the Forest Department.
My job is to conserve one of the most, if not the most irreplaceable aspect of the planet's environment.
Given the alarming rates of increasing pollution, it's essential that we conserve what produces roughly one-third of the oxygen for the planet.
So, this Environment Day, we want you to contribute to the forest cover of this area.
We will be planting trees together.
I hope everyone will cooperate.
We will be planting mainly banyan trees.
There are also some samples of mango and other common species.
We can work in teams if you like.
But these are very easy to plant.
Each one of you can manage one without any help.
Each student has to plant at least one sapling.
Do follow the instructions.
I really hope you'll enjoy the day.
Someone as knowledgeable as Mr. Balasubramaniam has graced us with his presence.
It's essential that students learn to conserve the environment, Mr. Desai.
I'm happy to have been of help.
Let's get going, students.
Pick up a sapling and give it a home.
Please feel free to ask me questions, if any.
Good morning ma'am!
I am here to get some information regarding life insurance policy.
Could you please help me?
Good morning, please have your seat.
Sure, we are here to serve our customers.
Anything you want to know related to our policies, I will help you.
May I know your name and age?
I am Devanga Saikia and my age is 39.
I want to know which insurance policy is suitable for me at this age.
Also, I want to know the benefits.
Thank you so much for letting us know your name and age.
We have a very good policy known as Jeevan Umang.
You can opt for that.
What is the minimum basic sum assured in this policy?
What is the minimum age entry for this policy?
What is the maximum age entry?
Minumum basic sum assured is two lakhs rupees.
Minumum age entry is 90 days.
Maximum age entry for this policy is 55 years.
Thank you so much for the information.
What are the death benefits of this policy?
Can I pay the premiums yearly?
On death during first five years, sum assured on death shall be payble.
On death after completion of five policy years but before the date of maturity, sum assured on death and loyalty addition, if any, shall be payable.
All these are applicable if all dues have been paid.
Premiums can be paid regularly at yearly, half-yearly, quarterly or monthly intervals.
Can I surrender the policy before the maturity date?
What will be the surrender value?
Yes, the policyholder can surrender the policy after completion of three years before maturity.
You have to pay the premiums duly for at least 3 consecutive years.
The details of the process can be accessed from our Ready reckoned, kindly look into it.
The information have really helped me a lot.
Thank you so much!
You are welcome.
If you wish, I can assign one of our agents to contact you who can describe you in details.
Could you please provide me your phone number?
That will be great!
Please note down my phone number.
Hello, I am looking to explore North-Eastern cuisine.
My friend, Cyril told me you are the right person to talk to when it comes to food and restaurant recommendations.
Yes, I have been in this place for quite some time, so I can help you with food recommendations.
Khar, an Assamese delicacy, is a good place to start.
Oh, I see. Is it vegetarian?
What is it made of?
It is made of a mix of red rice, beaten pulses and raw papaya so it is completely vegetarian.
A lot of Assamese spices also go into its making.
Ok, I'll be sure to try that out
What about bamboo rice?
I have heard that it is an Assamese special.
I can't quite remember the name; it starts with P; I think.
The dish you're talking about is called Pitha or Khola Pitha.
Lightly flavored rice is filled in hollow bamboo stems to make it.
Oh, so this dish is vegetarian, too?
Yes, and it can have a sweet or a savoury flavor depending upon preference.
Most people prefer the sweet version, and it's normally eaten with curd and molasses.
Ok, could you give me a few non-vegetarian recommendations?
I prefer non-vegetarian food, that's why.
In that case, smoked pork from Nagaland will satiate your taste buds.
It's crispy outside, soft and juicy inside, and the smoky flavor in it is very rich.
Oh, that sounds very tasty, but I don't eat pork.
I'll tell about this dish to my friend Cyril, though.
Hmm.. then what about Thukpa?
It's a noodle based dish from Arunachal Pradesh and the ingredients in it vary from lentils to any kind of meat.
If you prefer fish, then Tenga fish dish from Assam will be to your liking.
I am fond of noodles, so Thukpa is the first on my list of North-Eastern dishes to try out.
I will try out Tenga as well.
Are North-Eastern dishes generally spicy?
No, they're not spicy at all.
In fact, they are refreshing and aromatic.
Hello, is it TATA Capital?
Yes it is TATA Capital.
How may I help you?
I want to avail some personal laon.
Can you please check with my credit score and let me know how much can I get?
Yes sure please wait a minute.
You can avail a loan of maximum 8 lakhs as per your credit score.
What is the rate of interest currently on personal loans?
And may I know the procedure of applying for one?
Personal loan interest rates can typically vary anywhere between 10.50% and 24%.
It is usually based on how you fulfill the personal loan eligibility requirements of the financial institution.
There are quite a few documents that you need to submit for the process to start.
The documents required to establish your credentials like Voter Card, Aadhaar Card and PAN Card.
Proof of identity and proof of residence.
Income documents like salary slip for the last three months and IT returns statement.
Do I need to visit the branch personally?
Or can I apply online?
Application can be done online.
But for document submission and verification you have to visit the branch.
I'm a regular customer at your firm, you can check with that.
Can I just send my documents to your office?
Sir, it won't take much time, sending the documents might get mixed with the other applications.
What are the lower and upper limits on a personal loan, usually?
We provide Personal Loans from a minimum of 75,000 to a maximum of 35,00,000/- depending on your eligibility.
Ok then, thank you for the information.
I'll visit the branch soon.
Please get in touch in case of any other assistance.
Kamala, when are you coming back to work?
Have you even seen the calendar?
It's been almost a month.
I thought you said you were taking a leave for 10 days.
I'm sorry ma'am.
I wasn't able to inform you.
Where even are you?
Are you still at your paternal house?
No ma'am, I came home three days back.
Three days back?
Why aren't you coming to work then?
My hand is a bit swollen.
I'm finding it difficult to work.
Swollen? Did you see a doctor?
The doctor advised to take rest for a few days.
He surely didn't mean a month?
You haven't fractured your hand, have you?
No ma'am, that's not the case.
What is the case?
I don't know, ma'am.
My hand is swollen, it hurts.
If you had ever done your work properly, it wouldn't have.
You never fold the clothes.
The utensils are never quite clean.
You don't even have to wash the clothes because of the washing machine!
This isn't done at all.
I do as much as I can, ma'am.
Don't talk back to me.
Stay back at home, relax.
You don't need to come work for me anymore.
I'm firing you.
Wow! this is so swanky.
When did you get it?
Can I drive, please?
Are you sure you can?
I don't want any harm to this beauty.
Why not!?
I can try.
Do you not have insurance?
Haha..sorry I am kidding.
You should have seen your face right now.
What the hell?
Jokes on my car are not allowed!
You can joke on my life all you want.
Anyway, here you go.
Let's take it for a spin.
Have you named her yet?
You have gotta name your car.
Haha yeah!
I am going to call her Athena.
You and your Greek names, man!
Oh! the sound of the engine.
So cool!
And it's smooth.
This must-have cost you a bomb.
It would have if my father wasn't rich.
It's a gift, man!
On my salary, I can't even afford an iphone; forget a Ferrari.
So, how do you like it?
Isn't she better than Rahul's?
Obviously!
It's a ferrari.
You should get that 'Dad's gift' written at the back.
Haha! This is not Gurgaon.
I'd die of embarassment every time I take her out.
How are people so confident about these things?
Because they have rich dads.
Haha! it gives them the extra push.
Yeah, I guess.
Let's stop for a bite, shall we?
Sure!
Look at people gawking.
So cool!
Hey Rahul, I recently watched The Kashmir Files.
What stunning performances by every single cast member!
I was particularly awestruck by the performance of Bhasha Sumbli!
Yes; her character was very challenging to portray.
Sumbli did absolute justice to the character of Sharda Pandit.
Did you know that Sumbli herself belongs to the Kashmiri Pandit community?
Yes, I recently came to know of it.
I am especially amazed by how well she did in her debut!
Oh no, The Kashmir Files is not Sumbli's debut!
She had earlier played a minor role in the 2020 movie Chhapaak.
Is that so, what was her role?
She played the sister of Basheer Khan, the man who throws acid on Malti's face.
I see, I had thought that this was her first role.
I read that Sumbli also broke down while shooting the climax.
Yes, the scene is too brutal and the fact that it is based on real incidents makes it even hard to watch, let alone enact.
Did you know that Anupam Kher also belongs to the Kashmiri Pandit clan?
Yes, from his mother's side.
And his character, Pushkar Nath Pandit, is named after his father.
He is such a natural actor, his acting look so effortless!
Yes, you should also see him in Dhokha, A Wednesday and Karma.
The veteran ensemble cast delivers such convincing performances!
It was so good to see Puneet Issar as DGP Hari Narayan.
Didn't he play Duryodhana in B.R. Chopra's Mahabharat?
Yes he did, then there was also Mithun Chakraborty as IAS officer Brahma Dutt.
Even the newer talents like Amaan Iqbal and Darshan Kumar are so promising.
Veteran actors remind me of Mrinal Kulkarni as Laxmi Dutt.
I used to love her in Son Pari.
Pallavi Joshi's performance is really polished as well.
Everyone who has seen the movie hates Professor Radhika Menon, all because of her superb acting.
Indeed! It is not easy to portray negative roles but does Joshi deliver!
Her screen time was very limited yet her portrayal leaves a strong impact.
Every single actor absolutely aced their parts!
Good day, gentleman, and welcome to the Artist's Galleria!
Thank you, nice to meet you!
Would you like some assistance?
Yes, I do.
Sir, we can say that there are various types of art.
What are the different forms of art?
There are seven different types of art.
Painting, Sculpture, Literature, Architecture, Film, Music, and Theater are among them.
Oh that's wonderful!
When we think of art, the first thing that comes to mind is painting.
What are the most important characteristics of painting?
Painting is a method of expressing your artistic vision with the primary medium of paint.
Paint can be applied in a variety of ways, including brushing, smearing, dabbing, and splashing.
What are the different painting styles?
There are many painting styles, including modernist, expressionist, classical, surreal, cubist, Chinese style, abstract, impressionist, and many more.
Okay. What about the second one - Sculpture?
Sculpture is an ancient type of visual art that dates back to the prehistoric era.
A sculpture is a three-dimensional visual image created with traditional materials like clay, stone, ceramics, metals, or wood.
Who were some of the most well-known ancient sculptors?
Michelangelo and Myron are two well-known classical sculptors.
Literature is the third one, right?
Sir, yes.Every creative form has a story to tell.
Literature, on the other hand, is a sort of language art that can be read or spoken.
Exactly! Architecture is a different type of art; it is the art of building structures. Am I correct?
Certainly, sir! The Great Pyramids, Rome's Coliseum, the Taj Mahal, Hagia Sophia, and Stonehenge are examples of ancient architectural marvels.
The other two are cinema and music.
Cinema is the most recent of the seven art forms, having been created barely over a century ago.
Movies are a two-dimensional projection of a three-dimensional world, an art form that involves both our hearing and visual senses.
Then we can say that music is the skill of arranging audible sounds and vibrations to create a musical composition employing melody, harmony, rhythm, and timbre.
Okay. So what about the final one?
Theater is a type of art in which the artist incorporates both visual and dramatic elements.
Since the 6th century BC, when the Ancient Greeks invented theatre, it has been a component of civilization.
Great!
Sir, please take a look at our gallery and provide your important comments in the comment box.
Sure, thank you!
Hi, Naman! This is Rahul.
How have you been doing?
Hi, Rahul! I'm so glad you called.
I have been busy lately.
I am researching the famous museums in India for my project.
Wow... That sounds great!
How is your project going?
Well, I know there are so many museums in India.
But, I would like to include only the most famous ones.
Are you still working for the tourist company?
Yes, I am still working in Yatra travel and tours.
Great! Could you please help me out here?
Yeah! I think you can include the three most famous museums in India.
They are the National Museum Delhi, Indian Museum Kolkata, and Government Museum Chennai.
Great! That's good to know.
Why are they so important?
National Museum has diverse articles from the magnificent ancient era.
It was constructed in 1949 on the corner of Janpath in the lively city of Delhi.
What do they display?
It houses a variety of collections that include jewelry, paintings, armors, decorative arts, and manuscripts.
Wow... What about the Indian museum?
It possesses six sections containing five galleries of creative and scientific work of art that are archaeology, geology, economic beauty, and art.
Great! Is it one of the oldest museums in the world?
Yes, It was established in 1814 by the Asiatic Society of Bengal in Kolkata.
That's interesting. Why is the Government museum so famous?
The Government Museum exhibits different varieties of geology, zoology, anthropology, and botany.
Established during the British Epoch in 1851, the museum is an ideal place for people who are inclined toward history and art.
Do you have questions?
No, thank you very much for sharing this.
I'll make a note of them.
You are welcome!
Thank you for visiting the Literary Aid Association.
What can I do to assist you?
Thank you very much!
I'd like to ask you a few questions about literary art in India.
Okay, that's alright. I will try to help you with my knowledge and understanding.
What is the definition of literary art?
Literary arts are works of literature that are beautiful in style, theme, characters, or storyline. Lyric poems, dramas, short tales, and novels are all examples.
What is the importance of literary arts?
It allows us to exchange knowledge about anything in ways that aren't possible to express verbally.
We find a method to express our feelings, ideas, experiences, and whatever else comes to mind by writing.
Okay. Which is the earliest literature of India?
The Vedas are India's oldest known works of literature.
They were written in Sanskrit and passed down from generation to generation orally.
Which are the genres of Literary art in India?
Prose, Drama, and Poetry are the three major genres.
Prose is a type of literature that follows a predictable pattern of conversation and syntax.
A metrical story might be fiction or nonfiction, and it can cover a wide range of topics.
Poetry, on the other hand, is a literary work that employs rhyme, rhythm, and other techniques to communicate a powerful feeling or concept.
What was India's first literary language?
Sanskrit is the world's oldest language.
Could you please expand on this?
Sure! Since the Shruti Parampara, Sanskrit literature has been passed down to us by oral tradition.
The maximum number of works is limited to poetry.
A continuous flow of Sanskrit works in poetry can be traced back to the Rigveda, the oldest document in world literature.
That's fantastic!
Sir, thank you for your excellent explanations.
You are welcome at any time!
Have a wonderful day!
Bye!
Hello, I am calling to enquire about the visiting hours at the Qutub Minar.
Yes, the monument is open on all days and you can visit any time between 7:00 am and 5:00 pm.
What is the entry fee for adults?
There is no different entry fee for adults.
It depends on whether you are an Indian or a foreigner.
For Indians it is 35 rupees and for foreigners it's 550 rupees.
I see. I am a student at Jadavpur University.
Is there a student discount that I can avail?
I am planning on bringing four of my friends as well.
There is no student discount as such.
But you can get a discount if you purchase the tickets online or scan a QR code for payment.
Ok, here is my number.
Could you please send me a link to the website on WhatsApp?
Sure, I can do that.
You can book the tickets well in advance this way.
Ok, which hours are the least busy?
My friends and I need to visit the Qutub Minar to shoot a documentary.
So, it would be ideal if we could avoid the crowd.
The monument is busy most of the time but especially from November to March because that is the best time for visiting it.
The crowds have deteriorated a little due to covid so if you come early morning you should be able to shoot in peace.
Ok, early morning, I will keep that in mind.
Can we go to the top of the tower?
It would be amazing if we could include the view from the top of the Minar in our documentary.
It was possible earlier, but it is now banned because of an accident that occurred some time ago.
I'm sure you'll get many beautiful shots of the monument from the outside.
Oh, that's disappointing.
But I guess we'll do with what we can get.
It is ok to use a camera there, right?
Yes, of course, cameras are allowed.
Good morning, how was your trip to Maharashtra?
Hello, it was amazing.
I visited so many places and explored so much from local food to some well-known places.
You have to tell me everything, after all, you left me here and went alone for a week-long trip.
You too must take a trip to Maharashtra.
There are so many places you can visit, and especially when you are into historical places.
Yea, I heard a lot about the historical heritage of Maharashtra.
Did you visit Aurangabad?
Obviously, I couldn't take the chance of missing it this time.
I have already read so much about these places and last time I was out of time to visit Aurangabad.
How many days did you spend there and what all did you see?
This time I was there for almost 10 days so I had quite sometime at my disposal.
I visited the famous Ajanta and Ellora caves.
Ajanta Caves, one of the oldest historical places in Aurangabad are known popularly for their cave paintings and Buddhist sculptures.
It is surrounded by lush picturesque hills, these caves exhibit brilliant Indian architecture.
Ellora Caves are considered to be one of the worlds largest rock-cut caves.
They are constructed between 600 and 1000 CE, the Ellora Caves consist of 100 Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist caves, out of which 34 are open to visitors.
Did you saw Kailasanath Temple?
I heard it's the largest rock-cut monolithic temple.
Kailasanatha is a stunning cave temple, which is one of the 34 ancient caves of Ellora.
The 16th cave of the Ellora Caves, Kailasanatha is a monolithic structure built during the Rashtrakuta Dynasty and dedicated to Lord Shiva.
You mean it's Dravidian architecture?
It is completely in Dravida architecture.
Part of the famous Ajanta Caves, there are a total of 29 rock-cut Buddhist caves that ooze out calmness and serenity, which date back to the 2nd century BC and feature monasteries and chaitya grihas.
The walls of the caves are adorned with beautiful murals and impressive sculptures that tell about the life of Gautama Buddha.
True, Buddhist architecture is one of the most ancient achievements of the subcontinent.
What about the Islamic architecture there?
You should definitely visit the Jama Masjid, which is one of the spiritually important Aurangabad monuments and is known popularly for its extraordinary architecture.
This Islamic shrine features a total of 50 polygonal pillars, towering minarets, and awe-inspiring arches.
Did you see Aurangabad caves too, which are slightly different from Ajanta and Ellora?
Yes, Excavated back in the 9th century CE, a conglomeration of five ancient Jain caves lie at the popular Ellora Caves and make for one of the most interesting Aurangabad monuments.
Flaunting impressive carvings and paintings, these caves celebrate the beliefs and preachings of Jainism.
I think you didn't miss Bibi ka Maqbara, which looks like a replica of the Taj Mahal.
I couldn't miss it for the world.
Bibi-ka-Maqbara was built by the last Mughal ruler Aurangzeb in the loving memory of his beloved wife Dilras Banu Begum.
It is considered to be the epitome of love and one of the prime historical places in Aurangabad.
Made of pure white marble and adorned with intricate carvings, this structure is also one of the largest Aurangabad monuments.
Wow! you made me jealous.
Next time I'll join you no matter what.
Hey, Sufi.
Are you busy right now?
Hey Kirat.
Not really.
Tell me.
I was helping my dadu arrange some of his paperwork.
And I found a scheme he has invested in but doesn't remember the particulars of.
Can you please help me with it?
You have worked with an NGO which helped senior citizens with such things.
Yeah, yeah.
Tell me what do you see?
So the paper reads: PM Vyaya Vandana Yojana.
What is it about?
What are the benefits?
How does this work?
Oh, he has invested in that?
It's a good welfare scheme by the governmnet.
This scheme comes under the Finance Ministry.
It is created to protect the senior citizens from a financial impact of the market.
I don't get it?
How does it protect them from a dynamic market investment?
Let me explain.
So, if there is a future fall in the interest income from investment then this scheme provides an alternative from such unpredictable investments.
Under this scheme, senior citizens get an assured return of 8 percent on their investment.
And if there is a differential return then that's borne by the government.
What's a differential return?
This scheme is in collaboration with LIC.
So, LIC will give an assured 8 percent on your investment.
If there is a difference, as in if there are any losses, then the government will bear it.
Your investment will still be 8 percent.
Oh, alright.
I get it now.
And what about the payouts?
The payouts are monthly for 10 years.
How much has dadu invested?
It shows initially 7.5 lakhs and later 15.
Yeah, so it was open for subscription only for one year and the capping of investment was later increased per family.
This really helps.
He has no recollection of doing it.
I will go to their office and find out more.
Anytime man.
Let me know if you need any more information.
Take care.
Good morning class.
Everyone, please take your seats.
Today we will be talking about voters.
We all know that a person who casts his/her vote in an election is called a voter.
Now, can anyone tell me about what makes a voter eligible to vote?
The person should be eighteen years of age or above.
Exactly. The Citizenship Act allows all citizens to vote regardless of any discrimination based on caste, religion, gender etc.
But they should be 18 years of age or above.
Also, the voters are only eligible if they are citizens of India.
One needs to have Indian citizenship if one wants to vote in an Indian election.
What other eligiblity criteria do you know?
Their name should be on the electoral roll.
Correct. The names of all the people who are eligible to vote will be present in the electoral roll.
You should add your name to the roll to be able to vote.
You should be an ordinary resident of the part/polling area of the constituency where you want to be enrolled.
Ma'am, I heard that if you enroll at a particular place, you can only vote at that place?
Yes, enrollment is possible only at one place.
So, if you enroll as a voter at your constituency, wherever you are, you need to come to your constituency to cast a vote.
You won't be an eligible voter at any other booths.
Do differently-abled people have special privileges to caste vote?
They are registered as voters with disablities.
As for privilege, they don't have to stand in queues while in the polling booth.
But, a person with unsound mind will be exempted from voting.
Oh, are there other people who are not eligible to vote?
Yes. In India, according to the Representation of the People Act, 1951 of the Indian Constitution, all convicted prisoners are disqualified from voting.
That includes prisoners on parole and detained prisoners.
The same goes for people who hold another country's citizenship.
India does not recognise multiple citizenships.
So, if you posses another country's citizenship, you lose your Indian citizenship and your right to vote.
We didn't know that ma'am.
You also need to have a valid Voter's ID, right ma'am?
Yes, yes. You need a valid Voter's ID.
Then only your name will be enrolled on the electoral roll.
You can have the Voter's ID by registering online, or at a service centre with appropriate documents.
This will be all for today.
Talk with your families about their experiences as voters for the next day.
Yes ma'am, thank you.
Hello, I'm here to issue a PAN Card.
Is it for yourself?
For me and my daughter actually.
But, my daughter has British citizenship.
Oh, that is alright.
Can you list the documents we shall need to produce?
Let's start with your PAN Card.
I assume you're Indian?
Yes, that is correct.
For you, ma'am, we'll be needing three documents.
A proof of identity, a proof of address and a proof of your date of birth.
Which documents will be taken as proof of each?
For identity, you can produce a copy of your Aadhar Card, or your voter ID or your passport.
You can also go for a copy of your ration card, and a few other documents that are listed on a form I'll give you.
Whatever it is, it must have your picture.
Have I made that clear?
Yes, sir, you did.
For proof of address, any bill that's not more than three months old will do.
By bill I mean landline bill, or an electricity bill, or water bill.
They're listed in the form.
Or, you can produce a copy of your post office passbook, or passport.
Again, whatever it is, it should have your address.
You get the picture.
I do, and what about the date of birth?
A birth certificate or a passport will do.
Now, for your daughter, she will have to produce two documents.
A proof of identity and a proof of address.
A passport will be enough for both.
That is a relief.
Here is the list.
You'll find all the documents listed.
How long will it take to deliver the card?
At least 15 to 20 working days.
May I come in, sir?
Yes, please come in.
Please take your seat.
Tell me, how can I help you?
Sir, I have come from Hope NGO.
We are running a few schools for the underpreviledged.
We have 3 schools in the slum areas.
That's really impressive!
I must say, it is really a great initiative.
So, what can I help you with?
Sir, I want some information about your office.
As you know our students are from labour family.
I want to know if there is any work opportunity for our 10th grade students.
Yes, tell me what do you want to know?
That's really a good thought.
But, will they work while studying?
No sir, they will not.
They will complete their 10th-grade exam next month.
So, after the exam, we want them to be engaged somewhere so that they can start earning.
They will also learn about discipline, team work, etc.
Oh, okay! That can be done.
That will be good for them as well.
They will be able to learn different things.
Yes, sir, we don't want them to go back to the slum environment.
If they start working in some office, they will be introduced to the work culture.
Yes, that will be a boost up for them.
I will check if I can engage a few of them in my packaging unit.
Thank you so much for your assurance.
I will bring a few of them once the exam is over.
Thank you once again for your helping mind.
This litti is reminding me of idli.
The two are largely different but the shape is reminding me of it.
Yeah, it is a Bihari staple.
The side dish is called Chokha.
Litti are mainly made of wheat while the Chokha is made of brinjals and tomatoes.
What oil do they use in this?
It seems different from Kerala cuisine.
Mustard oil is used in the Chokha typically.
Mustard oil is used in all dishes of Bihari cuisine.
What is the dish in front of you?
It's called puttu and we normally eat it with black chickpeas.
There are various kinds of it, but the one I ordered is made of rice powder.
Oh, is the black chickpea side dish spicy?
I haven't heard of puttu before.
Is that coconut sprinkled on top of it?
Yes, coconut is commonly used in a lot of dishes in Kerala.
Spice is also abundant in them so most dishes have a high spice content.
Is litti your favorite dish?
Litti is one of my favorites.
My favourite Bihari dish is the Sattu ka Paratha.
It looks like an Indian taco.
I've never heard of that, but is it very healthy?
Oh yes! It is a very healthy dish.
It is made of chickpea flour and other herbs.
It also has a very tangy flavour, which is why it is my favorite.
What about you, which is your favorite dish in Kerala cuisine?
Appam and stew is my favorite.
It is made with fermented rice flour and it's essentially a pancake with crispy edges.
Oh, that sounds tasty.
We should do this more often.
Excuse me, is a gluten-free diet available here?
I'm diabetic and my friend is allergic to gluten.
Of course, what are you interested in having?
I was hoping that you could recommend some of your dishes.
I have heard that this restaurant has very healthy food.
For customers looking for a gluten-free diet, we offer rice, corn, flax seed, and millet alternatives.
We have a range of salads and smoothies as well.
We have a diabetic-friendly menu too.
I was looking for a local food menu that was gluten-free.
Something like mushroom brown rice or chicken quinoa biryani.
Yes, these options are available here.
We also have a few gluten-free soup dishes that you may want to take a look at.
What do you wish to have from the diabetic-friendly menu?
I'll have one Sabudane ki khichdi and the mushroom brown rice that I mentioned earlier.
What are the options you have for soup?
We have a gluten-free french onion soup.
We also make a savory split pea lentil soup.
Then we have the Pho Bo and a West African peanut butter soup.
The French onion soup sounds interesting so we'll have two of that.
I normally skip the desserts because it's hard to find desserts that are diabetes friendly.
Oh, don't worry, we have options of diabetic-friendly desserts too.
You could try the low-carb peanut butter cookies or the chocolate keto fat bombs.
We also make a good protein cheesecake.
I haven't had a cheesecake in so long because of my diabetes.
I'll have the protein cheesecake and a low-carb peanut butter cookie for her.
This restaurant is amazing.
Thank you for the compliment.
I hope you take the time to leave us a review on Google.
Please let me know if you need anything at all.
I'll make sure to leave a good review.
May I come in, sir?
Yes, have a seat please.
What can I do for you?
My name is Anand Yadav.
I'd like to take some money out of my savings account.
I'm not sure what the withdrawal procedures are.
Could you please assist me?
Sure thing, sir.
First and foremost, you must complete the withdrawal form.
Please enter your account number, name, mobile number, and address in the fields below.
Okay. Do I have to sign here?
Ofcourse. Please do so.
How much money do you want to withdraw?
I require a withdrawal of Rs.100,000/-.
Please fill out the form with the amount in words and figures, Sir.
Please remember to sign your name at the bottom of the withdrawal form.
Fine. I'll remember that.
Which of the following is the withdrawal counter?
Sir, please proceed to Counter No. 2.
The employee at the counter will confirm the customer's account number and name.
And you will receive the funds.
Thank you!
Can I do anything else for you?
I require one more assistance.
How can I know the account balance after the withdrawal?
Sir, please ask the counter staff to enter the balance amount in the passbook.
Alright! Thank you very much.
Welcome sir!
Thanks for being the valuable customer.
Visit again.
Are you into sports films?
You know the ones in which they tell the story of real sports players.
It is so inspiring.
I started liking them after I watched Mary Kom.
It felt so good watching that.
Oh I love those movies.
My favourite is Bhaag Milkha bhaag.
It's a 2013 movie about the athlete Milkha Singh.
Do you know how awesome that person is?
He's also known as The Flying Sikh!
Oh I love that guy!
He is the only athlete to win gold at 400 metres at the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games.
How cool is that?
He also won gold medals in the 1958 and1962 Asian Games.
I aspire to be like him one day.
He has got a Padma Shri.
I wish to get one after I become an awesome athlete like him.
And that race where he finished fourth?
The 400-metres final at the 1960 Olympic Games?
I think that is what he is best remembered for.
I once had to write a project report on him.
I read up a lot about him.
That time he finished fourth, he set an Indian National Record that was not broken for like 40 years!
I heard a lot about him while growing up.
My dad was a die-hard fan.
I also read his autobiography.
It was after reading that I thought I'll watch the movie.
It was so worth it.
The movie won many awards too.
Farhan Akhtar has done a great job.
It would be cool if you become a great athlete like Milkha Singh.
Hello, is this the Jaipur City Palace?
Yes, how may I help you?
I'm calling from the brand Vera.
We're an international luxury brand based in Chennai.
I'm calling for a request to access the palace for a photoshoot.
We're releasing a new product.
Okay, that can be arranged for.
Can I have your name, please?
It's Ananth. Would you require some identification?
We'll be needing quite a few documents.
One, a valid proof that the company exists.
Two, a list of the entire crew involved, along with their identification.
And identity proof of the person in charge.
Would it be okay if the documents are mailed to you?
Yes, but we'll need to see identity proof on the day of the shoot.
Sure, I understand.
What are the charges and fees?
Fees for Indian nationals or residents would be Rs. 200 or 300 based on the package.
The Museum package includes all the palace Courts and galleries and the camera without a tripod.
The Composite package includes that along with Jaigarh and the Royal Centotaphs.
Foreigners will be charged Rs. 700 for the Composite package.
Can we access the palace at night?
You can, that is another package.
That will cost you Rs. 500 for Indians and Rs. 1000 for foreigners.
There are also special tickets available that gives you exclusive access.
You can check our websites for more details.
Would it be okay if someone drops in this week and makes the booking?
Yes, that will be alright.
Thank you for calling.
Hi Bishnu, what are you doing these days?
Have you been to any bike rides recently?
I have seen some pictures of you.
No, it was from a different ride a long time ago.
I had a really busy week, so couldn't take out time for a ride.
But I am going this weekend.
What about you; are you doing your music practice?
Yeah, I am doing it whenever I get a little free time.
My days are also very hectic, you know.
I can't even manage to do Riyaz every day.
Anyway, are you really free this weekend?
How are you going to manage time to go for a ride?
I actually did overtime for a few days and completed my target.
So I am free this weekend.
I badly need some refreshing time.
Only by following your hobby, you can do it, right?
Yeah, you are right.
I need some time for myself too.
I am also thinking of taking part in a singing competition this Friday.
I hope it will help me get in touch with my favorite activity again.
How do you manage your time to follow your hobby amidst such a busy schedule?
I try to do Riyaz everyday morning before starting my work.
And I try not to keep my work pending.
So that I can get some time to do the things I like.
That way, I can spend my weekends listening to music and practicing as well.
I also try to do exactly the same.
But these past few weeks have been very hectic.
Still, I have managed for this weekend.
What kind of singing competition are you taking part in?
It's kind of an Inter-office singing competition.
I am going to represent my office in this competition.
I am really excited about it.
That is great, you must take part in it.
I wish you the best of luck.
Thank you so much.
You too have a safe trip.
Thank you, Lelina.